IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS. PREPRINT VERSION. ACCEPTED DECEMBER, 2024
1
GR-MG: Leveraging Partially-Annotated Data via Multi-Modal
Goal-Conditioned Policy
Peiyan Li1,2†, Hongtao Wu3∗‡, Yan Huang1,2∗, Chilam Cheang3, Liang Wang1,2, Tao Kong3
Abstract—The robotics community has consistently aimed to
achieve generalizable robot manipulation with flexible natural
language instructions. One primary challenge is that obtain-
ing robot trajectories fully annotated with both actions and
texts is time-consuming and labor-intensive. However, partially-
annotated data, such as human activity videos without action
labels and robot trajectories without text labels, are much
easier to collect. Can we leverage these data to enhance the
generalization capabilities of robots? In this paper, we propose
GR-MG, a novel method which supports conditioning on a text
instruction and a goal image. During training, GR-MG samples
goal images from trajectories and conditions on both the text
and the goal image or solely on the image when text is not
available. During inference, where only the text is provided, GR-
MG generates the goal image via a diffusion-based image-editing
model and conditions on both the text and the generated image.
This approach enables GR-MG to leverage large amounts of
partially-annotated data while still using languages to flexibly
specify tasks. To generate accurate goal images, we propose
a novel progress-guided goal image generation model which
injects task progress information into the generation process. In
simulation experiments, GR-MG improves the average number
of tasks completed in a row of 5 from 3.35 to 4.04. In real-robot
experiments, GR-MG is able to perform 58 different tasks and
improves the success rate from 68.7% to 78.1% and 44.4% to
60.6% in simple and generalization settings, respectively. It also
outperforms comparing baseline methods in few-shot learning of
novel skills. Video demos, code, and checkpoints are available on
the project page: https://gr-mg.github.io/.
Index Terms—Deep Learning in Grasping and Manipulation,
Imitation Learning, Learning from Demonstration
I. INTRODUCTION
T
HE robotics research community is striving to achieve
generalizable robot manipulation using language-based
instructions. Among various methods, imitation learning from
human demonstrations is one of the most promising endeavors
[1]–[5]. However, human demonstration data are scarce. And
the process of collecting human demonstrations with action
and text labels is time-consuming and labor-intensive. On the
Manuscript received: August, 12, 2024; Revised November, 15, 2024;
Accepted Decemeber, 17, 2024.
This paper was recommended for publication by Editor Markus Vincze
upon evaluation of the Associate Editor and Reviewers’ comments.
Digital Object Identifier (DOI): see top of this page.
† Work done during internship at Bytedance Research.
* Corresponding author ‡ Project lead
1New Laboratory of Pattern Recognition (NLPR), State Key Laboratory of
Multimodal Artificial Intelligence Systems (MAIS), Institute of Automation,
Chinese Academy of Sciences. 2School of Artificial Intelligence, University
of Chinese Academy of Sciences. 3ByteDance Research
peiyan.li@cripac.ia.ac.cn
wuhongtao.123@bytedance.com
yhuang@nlpr.ia.ac.cn
other hand, trajectories without language annotations are a
scalable source of data. They do not require executing pre-
defined tasks or text labeling, and can be collected without
human constant supervision [6]. These data can be automati-
cally labeled with hindsight goal relabeling [7]: any frame in a
video can be used as a goal image to condition the policy for
predicting actions to evolve towards this frame from previous
frames. Furthermore, there is a substantial collection of text-
annotated human activity videos without action labels from
various public datasets [8]–[10]. These data contain valuable
information about how the agent should move to change
the environment according to the text description. Can we
develop a policy to effectively leverage all the above partially-
annotated data?
Previous methods have ventured into this domain, but most
were limited to using data without either text labels or action
labels [4], [7], [11]–[13]. Recent initiatives introduce diffusion
models for generating goal images [14] and future videos [15],
[16]. The generated image or video is then used as inputs
for goal-conditioned policies or inverse dynamics models to
predict actions, enabling the use of all the above-mentioned
partially-annotated data. However, these approaches often
overlook crucial information, such as task progress, during the
goal generation phase. This can lead to inaccurate generated
goals which may significantly affect the subsequent action
prediction. Furthermore, these policies rely solely on the goal
image or video for action prediction, making them brittle in
the case where the generated goal is inaccurate.
To tackle these issues, we introduce GR-MG, a model
designed to support multi-modal goals. It comprises two
modules: a progress-guided goal image generation model and
a multi-modal goal-conditioned policy. GR-MG is able to
leverage data without action labels (e.g., text-annotated human
activity videos) to train the goal image generation model
along with the fully-annotated robot trajectories. And data
without text labels can be used for training the multi-modal
goal-conditioned policy. Given that robot manipulation is a
sequential decision-making process, we incorporate a novel
task progress condition into the goal image generation model.
This significantly improves the performance on both the goal
image generation and action prediction. During training, we
sample goal images from trajectories and condition the policy
on both the goal image and the text instruction or solely the
goal image if text is unavailable. During inference, the policy
utilizes both the text instruction and the goal image generated
by the goal image generation model to predict actions. Since
GR-MG is conditioned on both the text and goal image, the
policy can still rely on the text condition to guide action
arXiv:2408.14368v2  [cs.RO]  23 Dec 2024

2
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS. PREPRINT VERSION. ACCEPTED DECEMBER, 2024
Progress-guided Goal 
Image Generation Model
Multi-Modal 
Goal-Conditioned
Policy
Progress
Goal 
Image
Text
Language
Action
“close the drawer”
“moving tomato across a surface until it 
falls down”
“press the toaster switch”
“pulling knife from right to left”
“open the drawer”
“pick up the red block lying in the 
drawer”
GR-MG
Real Robot
Simulation
Data w/o Action Labels
Data w/o Text Labels
Fully-Annotated Robot 
Data
Language
Action
Language
Action
Action
“close the drawer”
Fig. 1.
Overview. GR-MG consists of two modules: a progress-guided goal image generation model and a multi-modal goal-conditioned policy. The former
generates a goal image based on the current observation, text instruction, and task progress. The latter predicts task progress and actions based on the text
and the goal image produced by the former. Data without action labels can be used to train the goal image generation model, while the multi-modal goal-
conditioned policy can leverage data without text labels. Fully-annotated data is used for training both modules.
prediction even if the generated goal image is inaccurate,
substantially improving the robustness of the model.
We perform extensive experiments on the challenging
CALVIN simulation benchmark [17] and a real-robot platform.
In CALVIN, without using additional partially-annotated data,
GR-MG significantly outperforms all the comparing state-
of-the-art methods in a zero-shot generalization setting. It
improves the success rates of completing 1 and 5 tasks in a
row from 93.8% to 96.8% and 41.2% to 64.4%, respectively.
When incorporating data without text labels into training, GR-
MG achieves an average length of 3.11 with only 10% of
the provided fully-annotated data, outperforming the com-
petitive GR-1 [4] baseline which uses all the data. In real-
robot experiments, we evaluate GR-MG in a simple and four
challenging generalization settings. In total, GR-MG is able
to perform 58 tasks and improves the average success rate
from 68.7% to 78.1% in the simple setting and from 44.4%
to 60.6% in generalization settings. GR-MG also surpasses
comparing baseline methods in few-shot learning of novel
skills. In summary, the contribution of this paper is threefold:
• We propose a novel Generative Robot Policy with Multi-
modal Goals (GR-MG), which is able to leverage both
data without action labels and data without text labels
during training.
• We introduce the task progress condition in goal image
generation, substantially improving the accuracy of the
generated goal image.
• We perform extensive experiments and ablation studies in
simulation and the real world to verify the effectiveness of
GR-MG in simple, generalization, and few-shot learning
settings.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Leveraging Multi-Modal Goals in Policy Learning
Language is probably the most flexible and intuitive way
for a human to specify tasks for a robot [1], [2], [4], [5],
[18]. However, language and visual signals exist in different
domains. And the information contained in a language instruc-
tion may be abstract for a visual policy to comprehend. A
line of research explores goal-image conditioned policies [19],
[20]. But obtaining goal images during rollouts is challenging
in robot manipulation tasks. Recently, some studies have
proposed leveraging both language and visual goals (goal
images or videos) as conditions during training [3], [7], [21]–
[24]. And Mutex [25] is able to leverage multiple modal-
ities for task specification, including speech, text, images,
and videos. However, in language-conditioned manipulation,
where language is the only condition provided, these methods
do not generate goal images. Instead, they rely solely on
the language to condition the prediction of actions during
inference. GR-MG differs from these methods in that it uses
both the language and the goal image during training and
inference. And the goal image is generated via a diffusion
model from the language and current observation. The most
related work to GR-MG is Susie [14]. It also uses a diffusion
model to generate the goal image. The goal image is then
fed into a diffusion policy [26] for action prediction. GR-MG
follows a similar paradigm but differs in two key aspects.
First, it introduces a novel task progress condition in goal
image generation, significantly enhancing the accuracy of the
generated goal image. Second, GR-MG conditions the policy
with both the language and goal image, whereas Susie relies
solely on the generated goal images. This design enables GR-
MG to address situations where the generated goal image is
inaccurate, thereby improving its robustness in challenging
out-of-distribution settings.
B. Leveraging Partially-Annotated Data in Policy Learning
Given that collecting fully-annotated robot data with action
and language labels is time-consuming, many studies turn
to alternative sources of data with partial annotations. One
approach involves learning useful representations from text-
annotated videos without action labels, which are subsequently
used for downstream policy learning [27]–[29]. Recently,
RT-2 [2] introduces a vision-language-action model that in-
corporates both robot data and large-scale vision-language
data during training, demonstrating powerful generalization
capabilities. Another popular method is to learn a video model

LI et al.: GR-MG: LEVERAGING PARTIALLY-ANNOTATED DATA VIA MULTI-MODAL GOAL-CONDITIONED POLICY
3
Multi-Modal Goal-Conditioned Policy
×T
“pick up the 
red block 
lying in the 
drawer”
“pick up the red 
block lying in the 
drawer. And {0%} of 
the instruction has 
been finished.”
Progress-
guided 
Goal Image
Generation
Model
Robot
State
[PROG]
[OBS0]
[ACT]
Action
Trajectory
progress 
{5%}
[OBS1]
𝑜!
"
𝑜!
#
𝑜!$%
"
𝑜!$%
#
Every n steps
Update
Fig. 2.
Network Architecture. We use a diffusion model to generate the goal image based on the current image, text instruction, and task progress. The
generated goal image is then sent to the multi-modal goal-conditioned policy, which takes as inputs the text instruction, sequences of observations images
and robot states. The policy is a GPT-style transformer. We insert query tokens [PROG], [OBS], and [ACT] after the input tokens to predict actions, future
images, and the task progress, respectively. The progress is fed back to the goal image generation model. In this figure, we show the setup with two camera
views: a static view and a view captured from a wrist-mounted camera.
or world model from existing video data to predict future
videos [11], [15], [16], [30]. An inverse dynamics model or
goal-conditioned policy is then employed to predict actions
based on the predicted video. Recently, Wu et al. [4] proposes
GR-1, which is pretrained on large-scale text-annotated videos
and then finetuned on robot trajectories with text labels.
GR-MG differs from GR-1 in two aspects. First, GR-MG
leverages data without text labels during training, while GR-
1 does not. Second, GR-MG utilizes both the language and
goal image as conditions, whereas GR-1 relies solely on the
language. These differences significantly enhance GR-MG’s
generalization capabilities.
III. METHOD
We aim to learn a policy π for language-conditioned visual
robot manipulation. Specifically, the policy takes as inputs a
text instruction l, a sequence of observation images ot−h:t,
and a sequence of robot states st−h:t. The observation images
ot−h:t include RGB images captured from timestep t −h to
t. In this paper, we use a static camera and a wrist-mounted
camera to capture these images. The robot states st−h:t include
the 6-DoF poses of the end-effector and the binary gripper
states from timestep t −h to t. The policy outputs an action
trajectory at in an end-to-end manner:
at = π(l, ot−h:t, st−h:t)
(1)
A. Data
Training a language-conditioned policy typically requires
fully-annotated robot trajectories τ which contain both action
and text labels:
τ = {l, (o1, s1, a1), (o2, s2, a2), . . . , (oT , sT , aT )}
(2)
However, collecting fully-annotated data is time-consuming.
The motivation behind GR-MG is to leverage partially-
annotated data in training. There are two main types of
partially-annotated data: data without action labels and data
without text labels. For brevity, we abbreviate them as data w/o
action labels and data w/o text labels, respectively, throughout
the rest of the paper.
Data w/o action labels contains videos with text annotations
but does not include action labels. This type of data can be
readily sourced from various public datasets [8]–[10]. Data
w/o text labels, on the other hand, contains videos with corre-
sponding action labels but does not include text annotations.
They can be collected on a large scale by allowing robots to
execute policies without constant human supervision [6]. GR-
MG is designed to leverage both types of partially-annotated
data along with fully-annotated data to maximum the usage of
data available.
B. Network Architecture
The network architecture of GR-MG is illustrated in Fig. 2.
It consists of two modules: a progress-guided goal image
generation model and a multi-modal goal-conditioned policy.
1) Progress-guided Goal Image Generation Model: This
module generates the goal image based on the current ob-
servation image, a text description of the task, and the task
progress. Specifically, we use InstructPix2Pix [31], a diffusion-
based image-editing model, as the network. Following the
approach in Susie [14], we generate a sub-goal representing
an intermediate state rather than the final state, and update the
sub-goal at fixed time intervals during the rollout. However,
unlike Susie which generates the goal image solely based on
the current observation and the text instruction, we incorporate
task progress information in the image generation process. The
insight is that robot manipulation is a sequential decision pro-
cess instead of static image editing. Additionally, the current
observation can be ambiguous in the case where there are
identical observations throughout the rollout of a task, e.g.,
moving an object back-and-forth. The progress information
can provide valuable global information for goal image gen-
eration. During training, the progress of a frame can be easily
obtained from its timestep in the trajectory (or video). During

4
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS. PREPRINT VERSION. ACCEPTED DECEMBER, 2024
inference, such information is not accessible. To address this,
we train the policy to predict task progress alongside the
action trajectory, as outlined in the following paragraph. To
incorporate progress information into the generation model, we
append a sentence to the task description, e.g., "pick up the red
block. And 60% of the instruction has been completed.".
We use T5-Base [32] to encode the text.
2) Multi-modal Goal-Conditioned Policy: Following GR-
1 [4], we employ a similar GPT-style transformer net-
work [33]. We briefly review GR-1 for completeness. GR-1
takes as inputs a text instruction, a sequence of observation
images, and a sequence of robot states. It outputs actions
and future images. The inputs are encoded into tokens with
corresponding encoders [34], [35] or linear layers. GR-1
leverages an [ACT] query token and multiple [OBS] query
tokens for action and future image prediction, respectively. The
query tokens and the input tokens are concatenated together
before being fed into the transformer. The output embedding
of the [ACT] token are passed through linear layers to predict
actions. The output embeddings of the [OBS] tokens are
concatenated with learnable mask tokens to predict future
images with a transformer. We refer readers to [4] for more
details.
GR-MG differs from GR-1 in three ways. Firstly, GR-MG
is a multi-modal goal-conditioned policy which takes a goal
image and a text instruction as conditions; GR-1 only uses
the text for conditioning. To inject the goal image condition,
we use MAE [35] to tokenize the goal image generated by
the goal image generation model and append the tokens at
the front of the input token sequence (Fig. 2). These tokens
can be attended by all the subsequent tokens for conditioning.
Secondly, in order to predict task progress, a [PROG] query
token is included. The output embedding of the token is passed
through linear layers to regress the progress value. Finally, we
follow recent work [36] to predict action trajectories instead
of a single action as in GR-1 via a conditional variational
autoencoder (cVAE) [37], [38]. Specifically, we use a VAE
encoder to encode the action trajectory into a style vector
embedding. We concatenate the style vector embedding, the
output embedding of the [ACT] token, and k learnable token
embeddings together and input them to a transformer for
predicting an action trajectory of k steps.
C. Training
To train the goal image generation model, we follow the
training setting in InstructPix2Pix [31] and train a noise pre-
diction model as in DDPM [39]. We sample the frame which
is N steps away from the current frame in the trajectory/video
as the goal image. As a rough task progress can already be
very informative and can bring about more stable training, we
discretize the task progress predicted from the policy from
0% to 100% into 10 bins before passing it to the goal image
generation model. As the training of goal image generation
model only requires videos with text annotations, we are able
to incorporate data w/o action labels in the training alongside
the fully-annotated robot trajectories.
For training the multi-modal goal-conditioned policy, we
initialize its weight with the pre-trained model weight derived
from the generative video pre-training on Ego4d [10] in
alignment with GR-1 [4]. The multi-modal goal conditioning
allows the policy to utilize partially-annotated data w/o text
labels. Specifically, if data w/o text labels is available, we first
train the policy with the data, where a null string is provided
as the text condition. After that, we finetune the policy on
fully-annotated robot trajectories.
The input task progress in the training of the goal image
generation model is computed from the timestep of the image
frame in the video. The goal image in the training of the policy
is sampled from the ground-truth goal image in the trajectory.
Therefore, the training of the two modules are independent.
We leave the investigation of jointly training the two modules
as future work.
D. Inference
During inference, the task progress is initially set as zero.
And the goal image generation model uses the current obser-
vation image, text instruction, and task progress to generate the
goal image. The goal image is passed to the multi-modal goal-
conditioned policy together with the text instruction, sequence
of observation images, and sequence of robot states to predict
action trajectories and task progress. As the goal image is set
as N steps away from the current image in training, we run
the goal image generation model only every n < N steps in
a closed-loop manner for efficiency.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
We perform extensive experiments in a simulation bench-
mark and the real world to evaluate the performance of
GR-MG. We aim to answer three questions. 1) Can GR-
MG perform multi-task learning and deal with challenging
generalization settings including unseen distractors, unseen
instructions, unseen backgrounds, and unseen objects? 2) Does
incorporating data w/o text labels enhance the performance of
GR-MG, especially when fully-annotated data is scarce? 3)
How does the inclusion of data w/o action labels improve the
performance of GR-MG? 4) Can GR-MG learn novel skills in
a few-shot setting?
A. CALVIN Benchmark Experiments
1) Experiment Settings: We perform experiments in the
challenging CALVIN [17] benchmark environment. CALVIN
focuses on language-conditioned visual robot manipulation. It
contains 34 tasks and four different environments, i.e., Env
A, B, C, and D (Fig. 3). Each environment contains a Franka
Emika Panda robot with a parallel-jaw gripper and a desk for
performing different manipulation tasks.
As indicated by [17], only 1% of the collected trajectories
were annotated with texts. The remaining trajectories with-
out text labels contain unstructured play data collected by
untrained users with no information about the downstream
tasks. These trajectories can be used as data w/o text labels for
training the multi-modal goal-conditioned policy of GR-MG.
We refer the readers to [17] for more details on the dataset.

LI et al.: GR-MG: LEVERAGING PARTIALLY-ANNOTATED DATA VIA MULTI-MODAL GOAL-CONDITIONED POLICY
5
TABLE I
RESULTS ON THE ABC->D SPLITS OF CAVLIN BENCHMARK
Method
Fully-Annotated
Data
Partially-Annotated
Data
No. Instructions in a Row (1000 chains)
1
2
3
4
5
Avg. Len.
Hulc [23]
100%
✓
41.8%
16.5%
5.7%
1.9%
1.1%
0.67±0.10
MDT [22]
100%
✓
61.7%
40.6%
23.8%
14.7%
8.7%
1.54±0.04
Spil [40]
100%
✓
74.2%
46.3%
27.6%
14.7%
8.0%
1.71
Roboflamingo [5]
100%
×
82.4%
61.9%
46.6%
33.1%
23.5%
2.47
Susie [14]
100%
✓
87.0%
69.0%
49.0%
38.0%
26.0%
2.69
GR-1 [4]
100%
×
85.4%
71.2%
59.6%
49.7%
40.1%
3.06
3D Diff Actor [41]
100%
×
93.8%
80.3%
66.2%
53.3%
41.2%
3.35±0.04
GR-MG w/o image
100%
×
91.0%
79.1%
67.8%
56.9%
47.7%
3.42±0.28
GR-MG w/o text
100%
×
91.8%
79.8%
68.9%
58.1%
48.1%
3.46±0.04
GR-MG w/o progress
100%
×
94.1%
85.0%
75.2%
65.4%
56.3%
3.76±0.11
GR-MG (Ours)
100%
×
96.8%
89.3%
81.5%
72.7%
64.4%
4.04±0.03
GR-1 [4]
10%
×
67.2%
37.1%
19.8%
10.8%
6.9%
1.41±0.06
GR-MG w/o part. ann. data
10%
×
82.4%
60.8%
42.2%
28.7%
19.7%
2.33±0.04
GR-MG (Ours)
10%
✓
90.3%
74.5%
61.2%
47.4%
37.5%
3.11±0.08
"100%" and "10%" denote the proportion of fully-annotated data used for training. "w/o progress" indicates that task progress is not provided for the goal
image generation model. "w/o text" indicates that the policy uses only the goal image as the condition. "w/o image" indicates that the policy uses only
the text as the condition. "w/o part. ann. data" indicates that the policy does not use the trajectories without text labels for training.
CALVIN Benchmark
Real-Robot Experiments
open the drawer
pick up the red 
block lying in 
the drawer
grasp the red block 
and turn it right
slide the door 
to the left
flip cup upright
pick up the 
mandarin from the 
green plate
pick up the green 
bottle from the 
white box
uncap the white mug
open the oven
close the drawer
pour the black 
seasoning powder in 
the red bowl
press the toaster 
switch
Env A
Env B
Env C
Env D
Env A
Env B
Env C
Env D
Fig. 3. Experiments. CALVIN benchmark consists of 34 tasks across four different environments. Real-robot experiments encompass 58 tasks, including
pick-and-place and non-pick-and-place manipulations.
2) Generalization to Unseen Environments: We perform
experiments on the ABC→D split: we train GR-MG with data
collected from Env A, B, and C and evaluate in Env D. This
experiment helps us evaluate the performance of GR-MG on
handling unseen environments. In total, the number of fully-
annotated trajectories from Env A, B, and C is about 18k.
We use these data to train GR-MG. Following the evaluation
protocol from [17], we command the robot to perform 1,000
sequences of tasks. Each sequence consists of five tasks in
a row. The language instruction for a new task is sent to the
robot only after the current task is successfully completed. We
train GR-MG with three seeds and evaluate the performance
of the last five epochs for each seed. We report the mean and
variance of all these checkpoints.
We compare GR-MG with various state-of-the-art methods.
Results are shown in Tab. I. Results of baseline methods are
sourced from the original papers or provided by the authors.
GR-MG outperforms all the comparing baseline methods,
establishing a new state-of-the-art. The average length reported
in the last column of Tab. I serves as a comprehensive metric,
indicating the average number of tasks the robot is able
to accomplish in a row of five across the evaluated 1,000
sequences. GR-MG improves the average length from 3.35 to
4.04. Additionally, it increases the success rate of completing
one and five tasks in a row from 93.8% to 96.8% and from
41.2% to 64.4%, respectively. These results showcase that GR-
MG possesses strong capabilities of multi-task learning and
generalization to unseen environments.
3) Data Scarcity: Obtaining large-scale fully-annotated tra-
jectories is challenging, especially in the real world. In this
experiment, we simulate the data scarcity challenge by training
GR-MG with only 10% of the fully-annotated data in the
ABC→D split (about 1.8k trajectories for 34 tasks). However,
we make use of all the data without text labels in Env A, B,
and C to train the policy first before finetuning on the 10%
fully-annotated trajectories. The data w/o text labels contains
1M frames, while the 10% fully-annotated data contains 0.1M
frames. Through this experiments, we hope to verify the
effectiveness of incorporating data w/o text labels in enhancing
the performance of policy learning. Results are shown in
Tab. I. GR-MG significantly outperforms GR-1 [4], improving
the success rate from 67.2% to 90.3% and the average length
from 1.41 to 3.11. We also compare with a variant of our
method, GR-MG w/o partially-annotated data (GR-MG w/o

6
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS. PREPRINT VERSION. ACCEPTED DECEMBER, 2024
Current
observation
Ground 
truth
GR-MG
GR-MG w/o 
progress
toggle the button 
to turn on the LED
light
store the object in 
the drawer
pick up the white bottle 
from the green plate
press the toaster switch
(a)
GR-MG
Current observation 
GR-MG w/o 
part. ann. data 
(b)
Fig. 4. Visualization of the generated goal images in CALVIN Benchmark and Real-Robot Experiments. (a) The generated images of GR-MG closely
align with the ground truths. Without task progress information, the goal images generated by GR-MG w/o progress diverge from the text instructions. (b)
Without partially-annotated data, the generated goal images do not adhere to the text instructions and suffer from hallucination.
TABLE II
ABLATION STUDIES ON TASK PROGRESS FOR GOAL IMAGE GENERATION
Method
MSE ↓
PSNR ↑
SSIM ↑
CD-ResNet50 ↑
GR-MG w/o progress
965.347
18.821
0.721
0.945
GR-MG (Ours)
903.139
19.121
0.730
0.946
part. ann. data), which does not utilize the data w/o text labels
during training. GR-MG significantly outperforms this variant.
Based on our observation, this variant is capable of generating
correct goal images most of the time. However, the policy
often struggles to accurately follow the generated goal image.
This justifies the usefulness of data w/o text labels in training
the multi-modal goal-conditioned policy, especially in the case
where fully-annotated data is scarce.
4) Ablation Studies: To assess the impact of using multi-
modal goals as conditions, we compare with two variants,
GR-MG w/o text and GR-MG w/o image, which remove the
text condition and goal image condition in the policy during
training, respectively. We retrain the two variants to ensure fair
comparison. The performance of these two variants is similar.
GR-MG significantly outperforms both of them, indicating that
both modalities are essential for effective policy conditioning.
To investigate the effectiveness of task progress, we also
compare with GR-MG w/o progress, which excludes the task
progress information in the goal image generation model. GR-
MG surpasses this variant, showcasing the effectiveness of
incorporating task progress information.
In addition, we perform quantitative comparison on the goal
images generated by GR-MG and GR-MG w/o progress. We
compare the similarity between generated goal images and
ground truths using four metrics: Mean Squared Error (MSE),
Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR), Structural Similarity
Index Measure (SSIM), and Cosine Distance of ResNet50
Features (CD-ResNet50). Results are shown in Tab. II. GR-
MG outperforms GR-MG w/o progress in all four metrics,
underscoring the effectiveness of incorporating task progress
information in goal image generation. Qualitative results are
shown in Fig. 4(a). Although GR-MG w/o progress is able to
generate goal images with high visual quality, these images
do not align well with the text instructions. In contrast, GR-
MG accurately follows the text instructions and generates goal
images that closely match the ground truths.
B. Real-Robot Experiments
1) Experiment Settings: To evaluate the performance of
GR-MG in the real world, we perform experiments on a
real robot platform. The platform consists of a Kinova Gen-3
robot arm equipped with a Robotiq 2F-85 parallel-jaw gripper
and two cameras, i.e., one static camera for capturing the
workspace and another camera mounted on the end-effector.
The training dataset consists of 18k human demonstrations
across 37 tasks, which include 23 pick-and-place tasks and
14 non pick-and-place tasks such as pouring, flipping, and
rotating. See Fig. 3 for some examples.
In this experiment, we aim to verify the effectiveness of
leveraging data w/o action labels in training. Specifically, we
combine the data from Something-Something-V2 [8] and RT-
1 [1] with our real robot data to create the training dataset for
training the goal image generation model. It is worth noting
that any videos with text annotations can be included in the
training process.
We design five different settings to evaluate the model
performance: Simple, Unseen Distractors, Unseen Instructions,
Unseen Backgrounds, and Unseen Objects. In Simple, the
scene is set to be similar to those in the training data. In
Unseen Distractors, unseen distractors are added to the scene.
In Unseen Instructions, we follow [5] and use GPT-4 to
generate unseen synonyms for the verbs in the instructions.
For example, we replace "pick up" with "take", "cap" with
"cover", and "stack" with "pile". In Unseen Backgrounds, the
background is modified by introducing two new tablecloths
that were not present in the training data. In Unseen Objects,
the robot is instructed to manipulate objects that were not
included in the training dataset. And the language instructions
are adjusted accordingly, i.e., the language instructions are also
unseen. In total, we evaluate 58 different tasks: 37 of which
were seen during training, while the rest were unseen. See
the appendix on the project page for the full list of training
tasks and the 58 evaluated tasks. We compare the performance
of GR-MG with OpenVLA [42], Octo [3], and GR-1 [4]. To
study the effectiveness of leveraging data w/o action labels, we
also compare with the variant which only uses fully-annotated
data for training the goal image generation model, GR-MG
w/o part. ann. data.
2) Results: Results are shown in Fig. 5. Real-robot roll-
out videos can be found in the supplementary material and
on the project page. GR-MG outperforms all the baseline

LI et al.: GR-MG: LEVERAGING PARTIALLY-ANNOTATED DATA VIA MULTI-MODAL GOAL-CONDITIONED POLICY
7
Fig. 5.
Success Rates of Real-Robot Experiments. Unseen Average shows the average success rate of the four unseen generalization settings.
methods in all five evaluation settings. A typical failure
mode of OpenVLA is inaccurate grasping. We believe this
is because it uses an discretized action space, making the
action prediction inaccurate. Also, it does not support inputs
of observation history and wrist camera observation, making
it difficult to accurately identify the appropriate timestep to
close/open the gripper in some tasks. Octo supports inputs
of observation history, proprioceptive data, and observation
from the wrist camera. However, it is not able to generalize
well in unseen settings, especially for Unseen Backgrounds
and Unseen Objects. GR-1 performs well in most settings,
but it is not able to pick the correct object in the setting of
Unseen Objects. GR-MG is able to generalize well to unseen
settings. The performance degradation in Unseen Instructions
is modest for GR-MG compared to other baseline methods.
We believe the powerful generalization capabilities of GR-
MG stem from the video pre-training for both the goal image
generation model and the policy. It allows the model to harness
the prior knowledge gained from pre-training to enhance its
performance in downstream manipulation tasks.
By comparing with GR-MG w/o part. ann. data, we con-
clude that additional partially-annotated data w/o action labels
are crucial for enhancing the generalization capabilities of GR-
MG. We qualitatively compare the goal images generated by
GR-MG and GR-MG w/o part. ann. data in Fig. 4(b). GR-
MG generates high-quality and accurate goal images, while
the goal images generated by GR-MG w/o part. ann. data
do not adhere to the language instructions. In the setting
of Unseen Objects (second row of Fig. 4(b)), the absence
of additional partially-annotated training data increases the
likelihood of hallucination: objects from the training set will
unexpectedly appear in the generated goal images even if
they are not present in the current scene. These findings
indicate that incorporating more data w/o action labels into
training enhances 1) understanding of language semantics and
2) robustness against out-of-distribution data.
3) Few-Shot Learning of Novel Skills: We further perform
experiments to evaluate the few-shot learning capabilities of
GR-MG. In particular, we first hold out 8 tasks from the 37
tasks and train the model on the rest 29 tasks. The total number
of trajectories used for training is 15k. These 8 tasks include
7 novel skills which are unseen in the 29 training tasks. For
example, we hold out "wipe the cutting board" and there are
no wiping tasks in the 29 training tasks. For the full list of
all the held-out tasks, please see the appendix on the project
page. After training, we further finetune the model with data
TABLE III
SUCCESS RATES OF FEW-SHOT LEARNING
Methods
10-shot
30-shot
OpenVLA [42]
0.0%
2.5%
Octo [3]
0.0%
0.0%
GR-1 [4]
2.5%
22.5%
GR-MG w/o part. ann. data
10.0%
27.5%
GR-MG (Ours)
17.5%
37.5%
containing 10 (or 30) trajectories per held-out task. That is, the
total number of trajectories used for finetuning in this stage is
80 (or 240). We evaluate on the 8 held-out tasks and results
are shown in Tab. III. GR-MG outperforms all the comparing
baseline methods in both 10-shot and 30-shot settings. We
observe that the main bottleneck of GR-MG lies within the
policy. The goal image generation model is able to generate
accurate goal images on the these novel skills after few-shot
finetuning, but the policy struggles to perform well. To tackle
this challenge, we plan to investigate scaling up the training
of the policy with more real-world data w/o text labels in the
future.
V. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we introduce GR-MG, a novel method that
leverages multi-modal goals to predict actions. GR-MG uses
both a language and a goal image to condition the action
prediction. It requires only the language as input and generate
the goal image based on the language via a goal image
generation model. This design enables GR-MG to effectively
leverage large amounts of partially-annotated data that are
missing either text or action labels. To improve the robustness
of the generated goal images, we incorporate task progress
information in the goal image generation model. GR-MG
showcases exceptional performance in both simulation and
real-world experiments, showing strong generalization capa-
bilities across various out-of-distribution settings. It can also
efficiently learn novel skills in a few-shot setting. We plan to
scale up the training of both the goal image generation model
and the policy by incorporating more partially-annotated data
in the future. Additionally, we plan to investigate integrating
depth information to further improve the accuracy of action
prediction.
VI. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work was partially supported by National Natu-
ral Science Foundation of China (62322607, 62236010 and
62276261), and Youth Innovation Promotion Association of
Chinese Academy of Sciences under Grant 2021128.

8
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS. PREPRINT VERSION. ACCEPTED DECEMBER, 2024
REFERENCES
[1] A. Brohan, N. Brown, J. Carbajal, Y. Chebotar, J. Dabis, C. Finn,
K. Gopalakrishnan, K. Hausman, A. Herzog, J. Hsu et al., “Rt-1:
Robotics transformer for real-world control at scale,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2212.06817, 2022.
[2] A. Brohan, N. Brown, J. Carbajal, Y. Chebotar, X. Chen, K. Choroman-
ski, T. Ding, D. Driess, A. Dubey, C. Finn et al., “Rt-2: Vision-language-
action models transfer web knowledge to robotic control,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.15818, 2023.
[3] O. M. Team, D. Ghosh, H. Walke, K. Pertsch, K. Black, O. Mees,
S. Dasari, J. Hejna, T. Kreiman, C. Xu et al., “Octo: An open-source
generalist robot policy,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.12213, 2024.
[4] H. Wu, Y. Jing, C. Cheang, G. Chen, J. Xu, X. Li, M. Liu, H. Li,
and T. Kong, “Unleashing large-scale video generative pre-training for
visual robot manipulation,” in International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2024.
[5] X. Li, M. Liu, H. Zhang, C. Yu, J. Xu, H. Wu, C. Cheang, Y. Jing,
W. Zhang, H. Liu et al., “Vision-language foundation models as effective
robot imitators,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.01378, 2023.
[6] M. Ahn, D. Dwibedi, C. Finn, M. G. Arenas, K. Gopalakrishnan,
K. Hausman, B. Ichter, A. Irpan, N. Joshi, R. Julian et al., “Autort:
Embodied foundation models for large scale orchestration of robotic
agents,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.12963, 2024.
[7] C. Lynch and P. Sermanet, “Language conditioned imitation learning
over unstructured data,” Robotics: Science and Systems, 2021. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.07648
[8] R. Goyal, S. Ebrahimi Kahou, V. Michalski, J. Materzynska, S. West-
phal, H. Kim, V. Haenel, I. Fruend, P. Yianilos, M. Mueller-Freitag et al.,
“The" something something" video database for learning and evaluat-
ing visual common sense,” in Proceedings of the IEEE international
conference on computer vision, 2017, pp. 5842–5850.
[9] A. Miech, D. Zhukov, J.-B. Alayrac, M. Tapaswi, I. Laptev, and
J. Sivic, “Howto100m: Learning a text-video embedding by watching
hundred million narrated video clips,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
international conference on computer vision, 2019, pp. 2630–2640.
[10] K. Grauman, A. Westbury, E. Byrne, Z. Chavis, A. Furnari, R. Girdhar,
J. Hamburger, H. Jiang, M. Liu, X. Liu et al., “Ego4d: Around the world
in 3,000 hours of egocentric video,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2022, pp.
18 995–19 012.
[11] R. Mendonca, S. Bahl, and D. Pathak, “Structured world models from
human videos,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.10901, 2023.
[12] B. Baker, I. Akkaya, P. Zhokov, J. Huizinga, J. Tang, A. Ecoffet,
B. Houghton, R. Sampedro, and J. Clune, “Video pretraining (vpt):
Learning to act by watching unlabeled online videos,” Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 35, pp. 24 639–24 654,
2022.
[13] O. Mees, J. Borja-Diaz, and W. Burgard, “Grounding language with
visual affordances over unstructured data,” in 2023 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2023, pp.
11 576–11 582.
[14] K. Black, M. Nakamoto, P. Atreya, H. Walke, C. Finn, A. Kumar,
and S. Levine, “Zero-shot robotic manipulation with pretrained image-
editing diffusion models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.10639, 2023.
[15] Y. Du, S. Yang, B. Dai, H. Dai, O. Nachum, J. Tenenbaum, D. Schu-
urmans, and P. Abbeel, “Learning universal policies via text-guided
video generation,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
vol. 36, 2024.
[16] Y. Du, M. Yang, P. Florence, F. Xia, A. Wahid, B. Ichter, P. Sermanet,
T. Yu, P. Abbeel, J. B. Tenenbaum et al., “Video language planning,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.10625, 2023.
[17] O. Mees, L. Hermann, E. Rosete-Beas, and W. Burgard, “Calvin: A
benchmark for language-conditioned policy learning for long-horizon
robot manipulation tasks,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 7,
no. 3, pp. 7327–7334, 2022.
[18] H. Bharadhwaj, J. Vakil, M. Sharma, A. Gupta, S. Tulsiani, and
V. Kumar, “Roboagent: Generalization and efficiency in robot manipu-
lation via semantic augmentations and action chunking,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.01918, 2023.
[19] K. Bousmalis, G. Vezzani, D. Rao, C. Devin, A. X. Lee, M. Bauza,
T. Davchev, Y. Zhou, A. Gupta, A. Raju et al., “Robocat: A self-
improving foundation agent for robotic manipulation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.11706, 2023.
[20] D. Shah, A. Sridhar, N. Dashora, K. Stachowicz, K. Black, N. Hirose,
and S. Levine, “Vint: A foundation model for visual navigation,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2306.14846, 2023.
[21] E. Jang, A. Irpan, M. Khansari, D. Kappler, F. Ebert, C. Lynch,
S. Levine, and C. Finn, “Bc-z: Zero-shot task generalization with robotic
imitation learning,” in Conference on Robot Learning.
PMLR, 2022,
pp. 991–1002.
[22] M. Reuss, Ö. E. Ya˘gmurlu, F. Wenzel, and R. Lioutikov, “Multimodal
diffusion transformer: Learning versatile behavior from multimodal
goals,” in First Workshop on Vision-Language Models for Navigation
and Manipulation at ICRA 2024, 2024.
[23] O. Mees, L. Hermann, and W. Burgard, “What matters in language
conditioned robotic imitation learning over unstructured data,” IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 11 205–11 212, 2022.
[24] Y. Jiang, A. Gupta, Z. Zhang, G. Wang, Y. Dou, Y. Chen, L. Fei-Fei,
A. Anandkumar, Y. Zhu, and L. Fan, “Vima: General robot manipulation
with multimodal prompts,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03094, vol. 2,
no. 3, p. 6, 2022.
[25] R. Shah, R. Martín-Martín, and Y. Zhu, “Mutex: Learning uni-
fied policies from multimodal task specifications,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.14320, 2023.
[26] C. Chi, S. Feng, Y. Du, Z. Xu, E. Cousineau, B. Burchfiel, and S. Song,
“Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.04137, 2023.
[27] S. Nair, A. Rajeswaran, V. Kumar, C. Finn, and A. Gupta, “R3m: A
universal visual representation for robot manipulation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.12601, 2022.
[28] T. Xiao, I. Radosavovic, T. Darrell, and J. Malik, “Masked visual pre-
training for motor control,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.06173, 2022.
[29] A. Majumdar, K. Yadav, S. Arnaud, J. Ma, C. Chen, S. Silwal, A. Jain,
V.-P. Berges, T. Wu, J. Vakil et al., “Where are we in the search for an
artificial visual cortex for embodied intelligence?” Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, vol. 36, pp. 655–677, 2023.
[30] M. Yang, Y. Du, K. Ghasemipour, J. Tompson, D. Schuurmans, and
P. Abbeel, “Learning interactive real-world simulators,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.06114, 2023.
[31] T. Brooks, A. Holynski, and A. A. Efros, “Instructpix2pix: Learning
to follow image editing instructions,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023, pp.
18 392–18 402.
[32] C. Raffel, N. Shazeer, A. Roberts, K. Lee, S. Narang, M. Matena,
Y. Zhou, W. Li, and P. J. Liu, “Exploring the limits of transfer learning
with a unified text-to-text transformer,” Journal of machine learning
research, vol. 21, no. 140, pp. 1–67, 2020.
[33] A. Radford, J. Wu, R. Child, D. Luan, D. Amodei, I. Sutskever et al.,
“Language models are unsupervised multitask learners,” OpenAI blog,
vol. 1, no. 8, p. 9, 2019.
[34] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, C. Hallacy, A. Ramesh, G. Goh, S. Agarwal,
G. Sastry, A. Askell, P. Mishkin, J. Clark et al., “Learning transferable
visual models from natural language supervision,” in International
conference on machine learning.
PMLR, 2021, pp. 8748–8763.
[35] K. He, X. Chen, S. Xie, Y. Li, P. Dollár, and R. Girshick, “Masked au-
toencoders are scalable vision learners,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2022, pp.
16 000–16 009.
[36] T. Z. Zhao, V. Kumar, S. Levine, and C. Finn, “Learning fine-
grained bimanual manipulation with low-cost hardware,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.13705, 2023.
[37] K. Sohn, H. Lee, and X. Yan, “Learning structured output represen-
tation using deep conditional generative models,” Advances in neural
information processing systems, vol. 28, 2015.
[38] D. P. Kingma and M. Welling, “Auto-encoding variational bayes,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:1312.6114, 2013.
[39] J. Ho, A. Jain, and P. Abbeel, “Denoising diffusion probabilistic models,”
Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 33, pp. 6840–
6851, 2020.
[40] H. Zhou, Z. Bing, X. Yao, X. Su, C. Yang, K. Huang, and A. Knoll,
“Language-conditioned imitation learning with base skill priors under
unstructured data,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.19075, 2023.
[41] T.-W. Ke, N. Gkanatsios, and K. Fragkiadaki, “3d diffuser ac-
tor: Policy diffusion with 3d scene representations,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.10885, 2024.
[42] M. J. Kim, K. Pertsch, S. Karamcheti, T. Xiao, A. Balakrishna, S. Nair,
R. Rafailov, E. Foster, G. Lam, P. Sanketi et al., “Openvla: An open-
source vision-language-action model,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09246,
2024.
