Simulation Distillation: Pretraining World Models
in Simulation for Rapid Real-World Adaptation
Jacob Levy∗1
Tyler Westenbroek∗2
Kevin Huang2
Fernando Palafox1
Patrick Yin2
Shayegan Omidshafiei3
Dong-Ki Kim3
Abhishek Gupta†2
David Fridovich-Keil†1
1University of Texas at Austin
2University of Washington
3FieldAI
https://sim-dist.github.io
Zero-shot Failures
Real-World Improvement
Peg Insertion
Table Leg
Slippery Slope
Foam
Fig. 1:
Failures of zero-shot sim-to-real policies (left). Our framework SimDist rapidly overcomes the dynamics gap and improves performance with
minimal real-world interaction. We demonstrate substantial gains in task execution on both precise manipulation and quadrupedal locomotion tasks with only
15-30 minutes of real-world data, substantially outperforming baselines.
Abstract—Robot learning requires adaptation methods that
improve reliably from limited, mixed-quality interaction data.
This is especially challenging in long-horizon, contact-rich tasks,
where end-to-end policy finetuning remains inefficient and brittle.
World models offer a compelling alternative: by predicting the
outcomes of candidate action sequences, they enable online
planning through counterfactual reasoning. However, training
action-conditioned robotic world models directly in the real
world requires diverse data at impractical scale. We introduce
Simulation Distillation (SimDist), a framework that
uses physics simulators as a scalable source of action-conditioned
robot experience. During pretraining, SimDist distills structural
priors from the simulator into a world model that enables
planning from raw real-world observations. During real-world
adaptation, SimDist transfers the encoder, reward model, and
value function learned in simulation, and updates only the
latent dynamics model using real-world prediction losses. This
reduces adaptation to supervised system identification while
preserving dense, long-horizon planning signals for online im-
provement. Across contact-rich manipulation and quadruped
locomotion tasks, SimDist rapidly improves with experience,
while prior adaptation methods struggle to make progress or
degrade during online finetuning. Project website and code:
https://sim-dist.github.io
∗Equal contribution, †Equal advising
arXiv:2603.15759v2  [cs.RO]  12 May 2026

Real-World Deployment
Expert Policy Training
Data Generation
Scalable Generation through Massively Parallel Simulation
Robust Training with Augmented Data 
World Model Pretraining
Improvement Enabled by Online Planning with the Adapted World Model 
RL with Established Sim-to-Real Pipelines
+
Expert
Checkpoints
Value Function
Expert + Sub-Optimal Rollouts
Action Perturbations
Expert Path
Perturbation
Recovery
Pretraining
Dynamics
Model
Encoders
Reward 
Model
Value 
Model
World Model
Data
Augmentations
Pretrain
Loss
Real-World Improvement
Dynamics
Model
Encoders
Reward 
Model
Value 
Model
Dynamics
Model
Encoders
Reward 
Model
Value 
Model
Dynamics Finetuning
World Model
Sampling-Based Planning
Real Robot
Data
World 
Model
Simulation
Dataset
Real-World
Dataset
Datasets
World Model
Real-World
Demos
Simulation
Adaptation
Loss
Rapid Adaptation via System Identification
1
2
3
4b
4a
Fig. 2: SimDist overview. 1) An expert policy, policy checkpoints, and a value function are trained in simulation using privileged state. 2) Large-scale
training data are generated by combining expert and sub-optimal policies with contiguous action perturbations, yielding diverse trajectories with dense reward
and value supervision. 3) A planning-oriented latent world model is pretrained on this data, learning representations, dynamics, rewards, and values from raw
observations. 4a) At deployment, the learned representation and dense reward and value models are transferred to the real robot to enable planning with the
latent dynamics. 4b) Real-world data is then used to finetune only the dynamics via supervised system identification, with representations, rewards, and values
frozen. Deployment and finetuning are iterated, enabling rapid and stable real-world adaptation.
I. INTRODUCTION
Robotic systems must effectively adapt their behavior using
limited interactions in new environments. This adaptation data
is often of mixed quality, spanning demonstrations, failed
attempts, exploratory actions, and rollouts from previous poli-
cies. An effective adaptation algorithm should preserve useful
priors from pretraining while extracting maximal information
from each new in-domain sample. This is especially important
in long-horizon, contact-rich tasks, where small errors com-
pound and success requires reasoning through many possible
futures.
We argue that world models [3, 59], rather than monolithic
end-to-end policies [19, 20, 25], provide the right abstrac-
tion for leveraging prior experience to improve efficiently in
new environments. Existing end-to-end reinforcement learning
methods [2, 12] often collapse when finetuning policies in
new domains [52, 42, 43], indicating catastrophic forgetting of
pretraining priors [57]. This reflects a limitation of off-policy
model-free finetuning: task representations, reward and value
estimates, dynamics, and action selection are tightly entangled,
so adaptation updates the entire decision-making process end-
to-end while solving difficult long-horizon credit assignment
problems. In contrast, world model architectures [14, 15]
typically modularize decision making by learning separate
networks for environment prediction and credit assignment.
This separation allows new environment data to refine the
model of action consequences without overwriting the broader
decision-making structure learned during pretraining. Online
planning can then convert these improved predictions into
better behavior by evaluating counterfactual futures beyond
those directly observed in the robot’s data.
However, learning a world model suitable for planning re-
quires action-conditioned robot data with diverse coverage at a
scale that is prohibitively expensive to collect purely in the real
world. Planning algorithms [47] sample candidate trajectories
beyond the optimal data distribution and must discriminate
action sequences that lead to success from those that lead to
failure over long horizons. This requires dynamics predictions,
return estimates, and state representations that generalize over
mistakes, corrections, and varying contact sequences. How can
we obtain the data coverage and supervision required to train
these models at scale?
We argue that simulation, despite the sim-to-real gap, pro-
vides an ideal setting for bootstrapping the components of a
world model that are required for effective real-world decision
making. Beyond cheap, scalable interaction data, privileged
simulator state enables supervision that is difficult to obtain
at scale in the real world. Simulator rewards can train dense
reward models that provide informative planning signals from
raw perception. Expert policies and critics learned by existing
student-teacher RL pipelines [52, 29] provide scalable labels
for action priors and long-horizon value estimation. Together,
these rich sources of supervision encourage the world-model
encoder to learn robust state representations that capture the
features required for effective decision making [15]. However,
a natural concern remains: if a simulator does not exactly
replicate the real world, won’t a world model inherit the same
biases, leading to poor real-world performance?
Our key insight is that these components need not be per-
fectly calibrated to the real world to enable effective planning

during deployment. Indeed, reward and value models only
need to define an accurate ranking over real-world states to
enable the planner to distinguish promising futures from poor
ones. This is a weaker and more transferable requirement than
estimating exact returns [52]. For example, in our peg insertion
task, the model need only rank states where the peg is closer
to the hole, better aligned, or partially inserted above states
farther from success. The dynamics model, in contrast, ties
actions to future states and is particularly sensitive to the
dynamics gap. However, with a properly initialized model,
this gap can be corrected efficiently using simple, supervised
finetuning on real-world data.
Concretely, we introduce Simulation Distillation
(SimDist), a framework for bootstrapping world models in
simulation and efficiently adapting in the real world with
online planning and dynamics adaptation. During simulation
pretraining, we systematically generate diverse rollouts by
perturbing expert action sequences to expose the model to
mistakes, recoveries, and failed attempts. At deployment, we
freeze the state encoder, reward model, and value function
learned in simulation, and update only the latent dynamics
model using real-world prediction losses. The frozen reward
and value heads provide immediate long-horizon planning
signals, enabling a relatively short-horizon planner to improve
performance as dynamics predictions become more accurate.
We provide extensive ablations showing that the encoder,
reward model, and value function transfer robustly across the
sim-to-real gap, and that broad simulation pretraining enables
the dynamics model to generalize to new trajectories from
limited real-world data. Altogether, SimDist sidesteps the
long-horizon credit assignment and bootstrapping problems
that make real-world RL unstable and data-hungry by moving
this bootstrapping to simulation. Across four real-world tasks
spanning quadruped locomotion and contact-rich manipula-
tion, SimDist reliably improves with additional experience,
while baseline methods for online finetuning struggle to make
meaningful progress and can even degrade during adaptation.
We summarize our contributions as follows:
1) We introduce SimDist, a world-model framework for
sim-to-real transfer that reduces real-world adaptation to
supervised dynamics learning while reusing reward, value,
and representation priors learned in simulation.
2) We instantiate SimDist on two contact-rich manipulation
tasks and two quadruped locomotion tasks in the real
world, achieving reliable autonomous improvement with
only 15–30 minutes of real-world data and substantially
outperforming existing adaptation strategies.
II. RELATED WORK
Real-World Reinforcement Learning. A growing body
of work studies reinforcement learning on real-world robotic
systems [35, 32, 52, 43, 45, 46, 31, 24, 13, 28]. However, both
model-free and model-based approaches remain challenging
to apply reliably in low-data regimes and typically require
sophisticated regularization. Efficient model-free methods ag-
gressively reuse off-policy data and rely on frequent critic
History Encoder
Latent Dynamics Model
Latent 
Encoder
Base Policy
Future actions
History
Observation
Return Prediction
Action Prediction
Reward and Value Models
Reward and Value Models
Fig. 3: World model architecture. The most recent observation is encoded
into a latent representation while a history encoder processes a history of
observations and actions. These jointly condition a transformer-based latent
dynamics model that predicts future latent trajectories under candidate action
sequences. Transformer-based reward and value heads evaluate predicted
trajectories to produce reward and value sequences, while a base policy head
predicts action chunks used to warm-start sampling-based planning.
updates [2, 17, 35, 7], often leading to value overestima-
tion and unstable learning. Prior work mitigates these issues
using conservative value estimation [27], policy constraints
[30, 56, 44], or critic ensembles [6, 12, 18]. Model-based
methods instead learn dynamics and reward models [14, 15]
to reason about unseen trajectories, but must carefully avoid
exploiting model inaccuracies. Common strategies include
uncertainty-aware dynamics [9, 32, 23] and explicitly penaliz-
ing out-of-distribution predictions [54, 55, 11]. Rather than
constraining learning, we show that bootstrapping a world
model in simulation provides the coverage necessary to enable
generalization beyond a small real-world dataset.
Adaptation with Physics-based Models. Many lines of
work leverage approximate physics-based models for adap-
tation and control, but typically rely on simplified, low-
dimensional state representations that are brittle in partially
observed, contact-rich settings. Classical adaptive control [1,
41, 21] and model-predictive control [37, 10] approaches
use highly simplified dynamics, abstracting away complex
contacts and interactions. Neural physics engines [50, 40]
combine structured system identification with residual learning
to adapt high-fidelity simulators using real-world data, but
often assume access to object poses, contact labels, or reliable
state estimates that degrade under partial observability. Closely
related work learns world models from mixtures of simulated
and real data [33, 48] or transfers value functions from
simulation to guide real-world learning [45, 52], but similarly
depends on low-dimensional state observations. We instead
propose distilling simulator structure from raw perception.
Generative World Models for Robotics. Recent work
trains large video models on internet-scale data to learn broad
physical priors for robotics [51, 3, 39], sometimes augmented
with simulation data [51]. Translating these predictions into
executable robot actions typically requires expert demonstra-
tions, either by planning in video space and using inverse

models to recover actions [49, 22], or by combining video
prediction with behavior cloning [59, 34, 4]. While effective
for reproducing demonstrated behaviors, these methods are
typically trained on narrow, expert-like action distributions
and remain constrained by the real world data. In contrast,
SimDist does not predict pixels and learns a task-oriented
latent world model with reward and value heads over a broad
distribution of low-level robot actions generated in simulation,
enabling planning to improve beyond the real-world data.
III. PRELIMINARIES
Problem Setting. We consider the problem of controlling
a robotic system operating in the real world under partial ob-
servability and unmodeled dynamics. Specifically, we assume
the dynamics are of the form st+1 ∼p(·|st, at) where st ∈S
is the underlying state of the system and at ∈A is the robot
action. The underlying state is not directly observable in the
real world as the robot only has access to raw observations
ot ∈O. We model the control problem as a partially ob-
servable Markov decision process (POMDP) defined by the
tuple (S, A, O, p, r, γ), with user-specified reward function
r(st, at, st+1) and discount factor γ ∈(0, 1], and seek to
maximize the discounted return E [P∞
t=0 γtr(st, at, st+1)]. In
general, dense informative reward functions are difficult to
evaluate directly in the real world, given the difficulty in
measuring the underlying state of the system. To render this
problem more tractable, we make the following assumption:
Assumption 1. We assume access to an approximate physics-
based simulator st+1 ∼psim(· | st, at) that provides privileged
access to the underlying state st.
Planning-Oriented Latent World Models. We build on
common planning-oriented latent world models from works
such as [15, 14]. These approaches learn reward and value
models that operate directly on raw observations, enabling
planning in the real world using the algorithms outlined below.
The primary novelty of SimDist lies in our systematic
framework for sim-to-real pre-training and adaptation. We
structure our world model according to (1), depicted in Fig. 3:
Latent representation:
zt = Eθ(ot)
History representation:
ht = Cθ(ot−H:t−1, at−H:t−1)
Latent dynamics:
ˆzt+1:t+T = fθ(zt, at:t+T −1, ht)
Reward Prediction:
ˆrt:t+T −1 = Rθ(ˆzt:t+T , at:t+T −1)
Value Prediction:
ˆvt+1:t+T = Vθ(ˆzt:t+T )
Base Policy:
ˆat:t+H = πθ(zt, ht).
(1)
Here Eθ encodes a latent representation zt of the state st from
raw observation ot; ht is an encoding of history over a window
of H timesteps; ˆzt+1:t+T is a predicted sequence of T future
latent states generated by the learned model fθ; and ˆrt:t+T −1
and ˆvt+1:t+T are reward and value estimates. We discuss key
architecture decisions in Section IV-C.
Sampling-Based Planning. We control the robot in the real
world with Model Predictive Path Integral (MPPI) [47] control,
a sampling-based Model Predictive Control (MPC) method. At
each control step, we sample a batch of candidate future action
sequences and evaluate them using the world model (1), ex-
tracting the predicted future reward sequence ˆrt:t+T −1 and ter-
minal value ˆvt+T , which are combined to compute the trajec-
tory return R(at:t+T −1) = γT ˆvt+T + Pt+T −1
s=t
γs−tˆrs. MPPI
then computes the control action to execute by importance-
weighting sampled trajectories according to their predicted
returns. Similar to TD-MPC [15], we warm-start sampling by
seeding a subset of candidate action sequences with noise-
corrupted outputs of ˆat:t+T −1 from the base policy πθ.
IV. SIMULATION DISTILLATION FOR EFFICIENT
REAL-WORLD ADAPTATION
We now introduce Simulation Distillation, a
framework for distilling physical priors and task structure
into a world model in a form that enables rapid real-world
adaptation with online planning and dynamics adaptation.
A. Pretraining on Simulated Data
SimDist builds on sim-to-real data-generation pipelines
that use privileged, state-based expert policies to collect large-
scale datasets paired with raw perception [53]. While prior
work primarily uses this data for imitation, planning-based
adaptation places stronger demands on the learned model. A
planner will actively search for high-value action sequences
and exploit model errors wherever coverage is weak, so the
model must remain reliable far beyond the expert and real-
world data distributions. Dynamics predictions must generalize
from few real-world samples, while reward and value models
must distinguish good and bad outcomes under off-policy
actions. To provide this coverage, we deliberately inject sub-
optimal actions during simulation rollouts, providing coverage
over mistakes, recoveries, and failed attempts.
Expert Policy Training. We first train a state-based expert
policy πe(st) with reinforcement learning using existing sim-
to-real pipelines [53, 29]. We also save the optimal state-
based value function V e(st) and intermediate policy check-
points {πk}K
k=1 learned during training to be used for value
supervision and diverse, sub-optimal data generation.
Generating Diverse Trajectories and Dense Supervision.
We generate diverse simulation rollouts (Fig. 2) by alternating
between an expert policy πe and a set of sub-optimal poli-
cies {πk}K
k=1, and by periodically injecting random action
perturbations over short temporal windows. This generates
diverse failure and recovery behaviors beyond the nominal
expert manifold, broadening coverage over dynamically fea-
sible state-action trajectories and enabling the world model
to reliably predict counterfactual outcomes. This results in
a dataset Dsim = {(ot, at, rt, vt)}N
t=0, where rewards rt are
computed from privileged simulator state and value targets vt
are provided by the expert value function V e(st). Crucially,
this data-generation process is massively parallelizable and
exploits the full training artifact of the simulator—including
expert policies, intermediate checkpoints, and value func-
tions—to produce rich supervision at scale. In addition, we
randomize perceptual observations extensively to ensure robust
transfer of the encoder. See Appendix A for details.

Algorithm 1 SimDist
1: // Pretraining
2: Perform RL, saving expert policy πe, policy checkpoints
{πk}K
k=1, and learned value function V e
3: Generate dataset Dsim in simulation per Section IV-A
4: while not converged do
5:
Draw segments {(ot, rt, vt, at)}i+T
t=i−H ∼Dsim
6:
Update θ, minimizing Lsim
t
(θ) at each time step
7: // Iterative Finetuning
8: Initialize Dreal with offline real-world data if available
9: for J iterations do
10:
Collect real-world rollouts {(ot, at)}M
t=0 with MPPI
and world model (1), then add to Dreal
11:
while not converged do
12:
Draw segments {(ot, at)}i+T
t=i−H ∼Dreal
13:
Freeze Cθ, Eθ, Rθ, Vθ, πθ
14:
Update fθ, minimizing Lreal
t
(θ)
World Model Pretraining. We pretrain the world model (1)
on Dsim by applying the following loss to predictions made at
each time step t:
Lsim
t
(θ) =
T
X
i=0

∥ˆzt+i+1 −sg(Eθ(ot+i+1))∥2
2
|
{z
}
latent dynamics
+ c1 (ˆrt+i −rt+i)2
|
{z
}
reward
+ c2 (ˆvt+i+1 −vt+i+1)2
|
{z
}
value
+ c3 1e(at+i)∥ˆat+i −at+i∥2
2
|
{z
}
behavior cloning

,
(2)
where sg is the stop-grad operator, constants c1:3 are
determined by normalizing over the range for each target,
and 1e(at) = 1 if at came from the uncorrupted expert
policy and 1e(at) = 0 otherwise. We apply various data
augmentations discussed in Appendices B and C to prevent
overfitting to simulated observations an ensure that the model
learns robust, transferable representations. In contrast to typ-
ical online MBRL approaches [15, 14] which are compu-
tationally intensive and attempt to bootstrap behavior from
scratch, we offload behavior generation to a privileged expert.
This reduces pretraining to optimizing a simple, stationary
objective, without requiring temporal-difference learning.
Robust Representations Without Reconstruction. Pre-
dicting rewards and values from z forces the encoder to capture
the task-specific features required for effective planning [15].
In contrast, many world-model approaches use pixel-level
reconstruction objectives, arguing that they produce more
robust and generalizable latent representations [3, 14]. We
find reconstruction unnecessary, and in some cases, harmful,
for two reasons. First, our diverse data-generation procedure
exposes the model to an extremely broad range of state-
action pairs, spanning initial conditions, object configurations,
contact modes, expert behaviors, failures, and recoveries.
This diversity forces the model to learn a robust represen-
tation without the added computational cost of reconstructing
pixels. Second, sim-to-real transfer requires extensive visual
randomization. Pixel reconstruction would therefore pressure
the latent state to encode randomized texture, lighting, and
rendering artifacts that are deliberately varied and irrelevant
to the task, which can hurt transfer [58].
B. Real World Transfer and Efficient Dynamics Adaptation
Our key insight is that global task structure is largely
invariant to low-level sim-to-real dynamics gaps. For example,
in Peg Insertion (Fig. 1), a meaningful latent state captures
the locations of the peg and hole, while the value function
encodes distance to the goal and motions leading to successful
insertion. This structure persists across the sim-to-real gap,
even though the low-level actions required to realize these
behaviors differ between domains. Exploiting this decom-
position, SimDist finetunes only the environment-specific
dynamics model while freezing the encoder, reward, and value
functions. Planning with frozen reward and value models en-
ables immediate improvement as dynamics predictions become
more accurate, without requiring reward or value bootstrapping
in the real world. Because the world model can be trained on
arbitrary trajectories, SimDist naturally supports off-policy
learning and can incorporate prior data such as demonstrations.
Importantly, the adaptation remains relatively short horizon
and local, since no long-horizon bootstrapping is needed.
Dynamics Adaptation Loss. When updating the dynamics
model we apply the following loss at each time t:
Lreal
t
(θ) = PT
i=0 ∥ˆzt+i+1 −sg(Eθ(ot+i+1))∥2
2,
with Cθ, Eθ, Rθ, Vθ, πθ frozen, fθ finetunable.
(3)
Because the encoder is frozen, it provides consistent latent
targets Eθ(ot+i+1) throughout finetuning, avoiding the need
to bootstrap a representation as in (2). This also anchors the
adapted dynamics to the same latent representation used by
the frozen reward and value models, rather than drifting away
from the representation Rθ and Vθ were trained to evaluate.
Iterative Improvement. The overall pipeline for SimDist
is shown in Fig. 2 and in pseudo-code in Algorithm 1.
SimDist autonomously improves in the real-world by repeat-
edly collecting M on-policy rollouts under the planner, adding
this data to the real-world data set Dreal, then finetuning
fθ to minimize prediction losses as in (3). Notably, because
system identification can effectively learn from any real-world
trajectories, SimDist is a simple off-policy reinforcement
learning strategy which can easily incorporate diverse data
sources such as demonstrations or play data into Dreal.
Remark 1. In contrast to standard MBRL frameworks [14,
15], which must jointly bootstrap latent representations, value
functions, and policies from scarce in-domain data, SimDist
offloads these challenging objectives to simulation, where
diverse data is cheap and plentiful. As a result, we can reduce
real world adaptation to supervised finetuning of the dynamics.

C. World Model Design Decisions
In order to successfully improve behavior, the planner must
sample numerous off-policy rollouts and accurately model
returns. The following decisions were necessary to accelerate
inference and enable reliable real-time decision making.
Minimal History Representation. Observation histories
ot−H:t can contain high-dimensional inputs such as images
that are costly to process. To reduce inference cost, we split ob-
servations ot = (op
t , oe
t) into proprioceptive and exteroceptive
components and feed only (op
t−H:t, at−H:t, oe
t) into the history
encoder Cθ. Using only the most recent high-dimensional
observation substantially reduces planning latency and, empir-
ically, improves training stability by reducing context length.
Chunked Prediction for Planning. Autoregressive world
models [15, 14, 5] require sequential unrolling over the plan-
ning horizon, which bottlenecks parallelism when evaluating
numerous rollouts. Inspired by [48], our latent dynamics model
fθ predicts T future states in a single forward pass using a
transformer with cross-attention between the encoded history
tokens and a candidate action sequence, together with a causal
mask. This chunked prediction fully exploits GPU parallelism,
dramatically improving planning throughput.
Sequence-to-Sequence Return Modeling. Prior work often
decodes rewards and values with per-timestep MLPs applied
independently to each predicted latent state [15, 14, 5]. We
instead use transformer-based reward and value models that
attend over the entire predicted latent trajectory ˆzt:t+T . This
aggregates information across the entire trajectory, yielding
more accurate return estimates (see Section V-D).
V. EXPERIMENTS
We evaluate the ability of SimDist to adapt in the real
world on the four manipulation and quadruped tasks depicted
in Fig. 1 and carefully ablate key design decisions. Additional
details can be found in the Appendix. We aim to answer: 1)
does SimDist outperform existing online RL methods and
behavior cloning baselines? 2) what factors enable the planner
to effectively improve performance with minimal real-world
data? 3) which components of the architecture and pretraining
procedure are crucial for the performance of SimDist?
A. Robotic Systems and Tasks
Manipulation System and Tasks.
Manipulation exper-
iments are conducted on a UR5e robot. Actions are six-
dimensional relative end-effector pose targets and a binary
gripper action, and observations include joint states and three
224 × 224 RGB images from wrist-mounted, overhead, and
side-view cameras. Each image is encoded with a pretrained
ResNet-18, fused with proprioception, and mapped to a 64-
dimensional latent state z. Training uses 100k trajectories (see
Appendix B for details on data mixture). We use history and
prediction horizons H = T = 5 and control the robot at 5 Hz.
Expert policies are trained with [53]. We consider two precise
assembly tasks, with initial conditions drawn from a Narrow
(2 cm × 2 cm) or Wide (35 cm × 35 cm) grid:
1) Peg Insertion. We construct a peg insertion task similar
to the 16 mm square peg task from [38]. This task requires
picking the peg, aligning it with the hole, and insertion.
2) Table Leg. We follow [16], wherein a table leg must be
picked, aligned, and threaded into a hole on a table.
Quadruped System and Tasks. We conduct quadrupedal
experiments on a Unitree Go2, with actions given as position
targets for the 12 joints. Observations include proprioception
and a local terrain height map, encoded using a CNN and fused
with low-dimensional observations via an MLP to produce the
latent state z. The policy πθ, reward Rθ, and value Vθ are
additionally conditioned on desired base forward, lateral, and
yaw velocities. Pretraining uses 100M simulated trajectories.
We use history and prediction horizons H = T = 25 and plan
at 50 Hz on a laptop with an RTX 4090M. See Appendix C
for details. We consider two tasks:
1) Slippery Slope. The robot traverses straight over two
panels inclined at 3.0◦and 5.7◦, respectively. The panels
are covered with PTFE (Teflon), and the robot’s feet are
wrapped with thermoplastic, creating extremely low-friction
contacts. A trial is successful if the robot traverses 1.82 m,
clearing both panels. We conduct five trials per commanded
forward speed at 0.1, 0.3, and 0.5 m s−1.
2) Foam. The robot traverses two 5 cm thick overlapping
memory foam pads whose compliant dynamics are not
modeled in simulation. A trial is successful if the robot
traverses 3.00 m to clear the foam. We conduct five trials
per commanded forward speed at 0.2, 0.7, and 1.2 m s−1.
B. Real-World Learning Methods.
We evaluate SimDist against state-of-the-art real-world
RL methods (and behavior cloning baselines on manipulation
tasks). All RL methods use the same encoders as SimDist,
but with an MLP policy head (no action chunking).
Manipulation. For each task, we collect 20 real-world
demonstrations via teleoperation. We evaluate two variants of
SimDist: (i) SimDist, which adapts only the latent dy-
namics model using on-policy rollouts (Algorithm 1), without
access to the demonstrations and (ii) SimDist+BC, which
additionally finetunes the base policy πθ using expert action
labels from the teleoperated data. In both cases, the dynamics
model is updated after every 20 real-world episodes. We
compare against model-free RL baselines for offline-to-online
RL, RLPD [2] and IQL [26], trained from sparse rewards to
reflect common manipulation settings where dense rewards are
difficult to specify; these baselines update after every episode.
We also include SGFT-SAC [52], a model-free method that
transfers a simulated value function, isolating the benefit of
full world-model adaptation beyond value transfer alone. All
online RL methods are given access to the 20 pre-collected
demonstrations. Finally, we compare against behavior cloning
baselines—Diffusion Policy [8] and π0.5 [20]—trained with
100 real-world demonstrations, as well as variants trained on
both real-world demonstrations only and co-trained on these
demonstrations and the simulated dataset used by SimDist.
The task set-up is identical to the corresponding tasks from

0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Data (episodes)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Success Rate
Peg Insertion (Wide)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Data (episodes)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Success Rate
Table Leg (Wide)
0
10
20
30
Data (minutes)
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
Forward Progress (m)
Quadruped - Slippery Slope
0
20
40
60
80
100
Data (episodes)
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Success Rate
Peg Insertion (Narrow)
0
20
40
60
80
Data (episodes)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Success Rate
Table Leg (Narrow)
0
10
20
30
Data (minutes)
0
1
2
3
Forward Progress (m)
Quadruped - Foam
Simulation Distillation
Diffusion Policy (Real Demos)
Simulation Distillation+BC
Diffusion Policy (Real + Sim Demos)
IQL
0.5 (Real Demos)
RLPD
0.5 (Real + Sim Demos)
SGFT
Quadruped Success
Fig. 4: Real-world results. Success rate for two manipulation tasks, computed over 20 trials, and average forward progress for two quadruped locomotion
tasks, averaged across all 15 trials (3 speeds, 5 trials each), as a function of real-world finetuning data. SimDist exhibits rapid and consistent improvement
with limited data by finetuning only the latent dynamics model while planning with frozen reward and value models. In contrast, direct policy finetuning with
the baselines shows limited or no improvement under the same data budgets.
[52], however, we depart from this work by defining a rollout
to be successful if it completes the task within 45 seconds.
Quadruped. For quadruped locomotion, we compare
SimDist against the off-policy algorithm RLPD [2] and
the offline-to-online finetuning method from IQL [26], whose
value function is pretrained in simulation. All methods use
the same learned reward model from SimDist, allowing us
to isolate the effect of different adaptation strategies. We do
not have the ability to collect demonstrations for this system,
and thus do not compare methods which require them.
C. Real World Improvement Results
Figure 4 summarizes our results. Across all tasks, SimDist
consistently outperforms prior approaches, achieving substan-
tially higher success rates with far greater sample efficiency
than online RL baselines, while autonomously improving well
beyond the performance of behavior cloning methods. Across
the board SimDist typically reaches scores around 2× higher
than any baseline. Standard RL finetuning methods frequently
exhibit catastrophic forgetting, with performance collapsing
during adaptation, whereas SimDist makes steady, mono-
tonic progress throughout training, due to its ability to side
step long-horizon credit assignment and improve performance
with simple supervised learning. SGFT avoids catastrophic
collapse by transferring value functions from simulation, but
remains significantly more sample inefficient than SimDist,
which can efficiently improve by leveraging the world model
to make numerous counterfactual predictions about trajectories
the robot has not directly experienced. Finally, we observe
that providing SimDist with demonstrations only boosts
performance, highlighting how SimDist can naturally absorb
heterogeneous, mixed quality sources of data.
For the two manipulation tasks, the performance gap be-
tween SimDist and baselines widens as the task is made
more difficult by expanding the ranges of initial conditions
from the narrow to wide distribution. This underscores the ben-
efit of broad simulation pretraining, which enables SimDist
to retain structural priors from the simulator and reliably
improve performance over the entire state-space with limited
real-world data. This effect is illustrated in Fig. 7, which vi-
sualizes successful and failed initial conditions for SimDist
and Diffusion Policy on Peg Hard, revealing the substantially
greater robustness of policies learned by SimDist.
Finally,
Fig.
6
provides
additional
insight
into
how
SimDist improves performance by plotting the number of
success/min achieved during training. SimDist monoton-
ically improves throughput by ∼1.5×–2× over zero-shot

Fig. 5: Value predictions from SimDist along successful and failed real-
world Peg trajectories starting from the same initial condition. The predicted
values track task progress and clearly distinguish successful from failure.
0
20
40
60
80
100
Data (episodes)
1.50
1.75
2.00
2.25
2.50
Cycle Rate (Success/min)
Peg Insertion (Wide)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Data (episodes)
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Cycle Rate (Success/min)
Table Leg (Wide)
SimDist
Fig. 6: Throughput of manipulation policies throughout training. SimDist
reliably improves the velocity of successful task completions.
performance.
D. Analyzing Real-World Predictions and Effects on Planning
The planner can only improve behavior if it can reliably
distinguish trajectories with high and low returns. This requires
both accurate dynamics predictions and successful transfer
of reward and value models. We examine value transfer in
Fig. 5, which plots predicted values over time for successful
and failed trajectories. For the successful rollout, predicted
value increases consistently over time, while the value drops
sharply when the robot drops the peg during the failed rollout.
Thus the transferred encoder Eθ and value function Vθ reliably
discriminate between successful and failed trajectories.
Next in Fig. 9 we compare ground truth camera observations
for the peg task compared to images reconstructed from the
corresponding latent encoding zt = Eθ(ot) generated by the
frozen encoder. The images are generated by an auxiliary
probe trained on all available real world data, and we re-
iterate that the world model itself is not trained with the
reconstruction loss. Even though the encoder is not trained
Fig. 7: Scatter-Plot showing successful and failed attempts at solving the
Peg Wide task for Diffusion Policy (Right) and the final trained policy
for SimDist(Left). The broad coverage of pretraining data for SimDist
enables efficiently learning policies which are far more robust than baselines.
to explicitly reconstruct pixels, the the broad diverse pre-
training of SimDist forces the encoder to learn a robust
representation which is able to capture the underlying state of
the real-world scene, enabling the reconstructions portrayed.
We next evaluate dynamics prediction accuracy on the
Quadruped Slippery Slope task in Fig. 8a. We roll a held-out
real-world trajectory through the world model and compute the
latent dynamics loss (3) at each timestep, yielding an average
loss of 0.076 for the pretrained model and 0.019 after finetun-
ing. To visualize the impact of this improvement, we decode
predicted latent states into predicted front-left foot positions
in Fig. 8c. Before finetuning, the model incorrectly predicts
stable contact on the PTFE surface and fails to anticipate slip;
after finetuning, it accurately predicts future slippage, closely
matching the real trajectory (Fig. 8b). This illustrates how
broad simulation pretraining enables the dynamics model to
generalize to real-world trajectories outside the training set.
Finally, improved dynamics predictions directly reshape
planning behavior. As shown in Fig. 8d, trajectory samples
generated with the finetuned model reflect the altered contact
dynamics and lead the planner to select plans that account for
real-world slip. In contrast, plans derived from the pretrained
model are qualitatively inconsistent with the true dynamics.
Together, these results show that finetuning corrects latent
dynamics errors in a way that meaningfully changes the
planner’s trajectory distribution, explaining the rapid real-
world performance gains observed in Fig. 4.
E. Ablating Key Design Decisions
Unfreezing World Model Components. We first ablate
unfreezing world-model components during real-world adap-
tation, with results in Fig. 10. Unfreezing the encoder causes
complete performance loss, as frozen reward and value heads
receive latents outside their training distribution. Unfreezing
the value function, following [11], reintroduces long-horizon
credit assignment from limited real-world data and causes
catastrophic forgetting. We omit reward-model unfreezing,
since accurate dense reward labels are generally unavailable
in the real world, underscoring a key advantage of SimDist:
reward transfer without real-world labels.

0
50
100
150
200
250
Timestep
0.05
0.10
0.15
Latent Dynamics Loss
Pretrained
Finetuned
(a)
(b)
Actual
Pretrained
Finetuned
(c)
Samples (Finetuned)
Plan (Finetuned)
Plan (Pretrained)
(d)
Fig. 8:
(a) Finetuning drastically lowers dynamics prediction loss on a quadruped Slippery Slope trial. (b) Frames showing the front left foot slipping
during the trial. (c) Foot-trajectory predictions from the world model at the same instant: the finetuned model correctly anticipates future slippage, while
the pretrained model fails to do so. (d) Visualization of sampling-based planning. Candidate action sequences are evaluated with the world model. Sampled
trajectories are shown from the finetuned dynamics model, along with the resulting optimal plans under the finetuned and pretrained models. The finetuned
model produces plans that account for real world dynamics mismatch, while the pretrained model generates qualitatively different plans.
Fig. 9: Real world camera observations and images reconstructed from the
corresponding encoded latent state zt using an auxiliary encoder. We reiterate
pixel reconstruction is not used as a training objective for the model.
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Data (episodes)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Success Rate
Peg Insertion (Wide)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Data (episodes)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Success Rate
Peg Insertion (Narrow)
SimDist
Unfrozen Encoder
Unfrozen Value
Fig. 10: Unfreezing world-model components during real-world adaptation.
We run the following ablations in simulation, with results
in Table I (see Appendix D for details).
Data Scale and Diversity. We first study the effect of
dataset scale by reducing simulation rollouts to 10% and 50%
of the full pretraining data. Performance drops sharply as data
is reduced for both systems. We next evaluate the role of data
diversity by comparing pretraining on expert-only trajectories
to our mixed datasets with equal data volume, and observe
that expert-only data leads to a substantial performance drop.
Together, these results highlight the importance of obtaining
large, diverse datasets to provide the coverage needed to pre-
train world models which can be used for effective planning.
Reward and Value Transformers. Next, we ablate the use
of sequence-to-sequence transformers for reward and value
prediction, replacing them with per-timestep MLP decoders
as in [14, 15]. This consistently degrades performance across
tasks. We attribute this to the inability of per-step models to
TABLE I:
Ablation results in simulation, reporting success rates for ma-
nipulation tasks and average state-based reward per episode for the quadruped.
Peg Insertion
Table Leg
Quadruped
(SR)
(SR)
(Reward)
SimDist
0.90
0.85
22.78
50% data
0.72
0.61
22.73
10% data
0.06
0.02
19.38
Expert Data Only
0.10
0.05
16.68
MLP Reward+Value Models
0.82
0.60
19.47
Raw Obs. Reconstruction
0.32
0.21
23.34
capture trajectory-level structure, which is essential for accu-
rately evaluating candidate action sequences during planning.
Reconstruction Loss. We study the effect of adding an
observation reconstruction loss to the training objective, a
common design choice in MBRL [14, 3]. While reconstruc-
tion slightly improves quadruped performance, it leads to a
steep performance drop for manipulation, consistent with the
concern that pixel reconstruction pressures the latent state to
encode task-irrelevant details (Section IV-A).
VI. CONCLUSION
We introduced SimDist, a framework for sim-to-real
adaptation that uses the modular structure of world models to
target the dynamics gap between simulation and reality. Across
two precise manipulation tasks and two quadruped locomotion
tasks, SimDist improves more efficiently and reliably than
prior RL finetuning methods, which often collapse or fail
to make meaningful progress. However, freezing reward and
value models can cap performance when the transferred value
function saturates or no longer distinguishes high-performing
real-world trajectories. Closing the gap to near-perfect success
may require selectively updating value functions in addition
to dynamics. SimDist also does not train on internet-scale
video or richer sensing modalities, and still depends on simu-
lation coverage broad enough to support reliable planning.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors thank Trey Smith, Brian Coltin and the mem-
bers of the WEIRD Lab at UW for their insights and feedback.
This work was supported by a NASA Space Technology Grad-
uate Research Opportunity under award 80NSSC23K1192 and
the generous support of FieldAI.

REFERENCES
[1] Karl Johan ˚Astr¨om. Adaptive control. In Mathematical
System Theory: The Influence of RE Kalman, pages 437–
450. Springer, 1995.
[2] Philip J Ball, Laura Smith, Ilya Kostrikov, and Sergey
Levine.
Efficient online reinforcement learning with
offline data.
In International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 1577–1594. PMLR, 2023.
[3] Jake Bruce, Michael D Dennis, Ashley Edwards, Jack
Parker-Holder, Yuge Shi, Edward Hughes, Matthew Lai,
Aditi Mavalankar, Richie Steigerwald, Chris Apps, et al.
Genie: Generative interactive environments. In Forty-first
International Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
[4] Chi-Lam Cheang, Guangzeng Chen, Ya Jing, Tao Kong,
Hang Li, Yifeng Li, Yuxiao Liu, Hongtao Wu, Jiafeng
Xu, Yichu Yang, et al.
Gr-2: A generative video-
language-action model with web-scale knowledge for
robot manipulation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.06158,
2024.
[5] Chang Chen, Yi-Fu Wu, Jaesik Yoon, and Sungjin Ahn.
Transdreamer: Reinforcement learning with transformer
world models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.09481, 2022.
[6] Xinyue Chen, Che Wang, Zijian Zhou, and Keith W.
Ross. Randomized ensembled double q-learning: Learn-
ing fast without a model.
In International Confer-
ence on Learning Representations, 2021.
URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=AY8zfZm0tDd.
[7] Xinyue Chen, Che Wang, Zijian Zhou, and Keith W
Ross. Randomized ensembled double q-learning: Learn-
ing fast without a model. In International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2021.
[8] Cheng Chi, Zhenjia Xu, Siyuan Feng, Eric Cousineau,
Yilun Du, Benjamin Burchfiel, Russ Tedrake, and Shuran
Song. Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via
action diffusion. The International Journal of Robotics
Research, 2024.
[9] Kurtland Chua, Roberto Calandra, Rowan McAllister,
and Sergey Levine.
Deep reinforcement learning in a
handful of trials using probabilistic dynamics models.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 31,
2018.
[10] Jared Di Carlo, Patrick M. Wensing, Benjamin Katz,
Gerardo Bledt, and Sangbae Kim. Dynamic locomotion
in the mit cheetah 3 through convex model-predictive
control. In 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 1–9, 2018.
doi: 10.1109/IROS.2018.8594448.
[11] Yunhai Feng, Nicklas Hansen, Ziyan Xiong, Chan-
dramouli Rajagopalan, and Xiaolong Wang. Finetuning
offline world models in the real world, 2023.
URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.16029.
[12] Tuomas Haarnoja, Sehoon Ha, Aurick Zhou, Jie Tan,
George Tucker, and Sergey Levine.
Learning to
walk via deep reinforcement learning.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1812.11103, 2018.
[13] Tuomas Haarnoja, Aurick Zhou, Kristian Hartikainen,
George Tucker, Sehoon Ha, Jie Tan, Vikash Kumar,
Henry Zhu, Abhishek Gupta, Pieter Abbeel, et al. Soft
actor-critic algorithms and applications. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1812.05905, 2018.
[14] Danijar Hafner, Timothy Lillicrap, Jimmy Ba, and Mo-
hammad Norouzi. Dream to control: Learning behaviors
by latent imagination.
In International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2020.
[15] Nicklas A Hansen, Hao Su, and Xiaolong Wang. Tem-
poral difference learning for model predictive control.
In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages
8387–8406. PMLR, 2022.
[16] Minho
Heo,
Youngwoon
Lee,
Doohyun
Lee,
and
Joseph J. Lim. Furniturebench: Reproducible real-world
benchmark for long-horizon complex manipulation. In
Robotics: Science and Systems, 2023.
[17] Takuya Hiraoka, Takahisa Imagawa, Taisei Hashimoto,
Takashi Onishi, and Yoshimasa Tsuruoka. Dropout q-
functions for doubly efficient reinforcement learning. In
International Conference on Learning Representations,
2022.
[18] Takuya Hiraoka, Takahisa Imagawa, Taisei Hashimoto,
Takashi Onishi, and Yoshimasa Tsuruoka.
Dropout
q-functions for doubly efficient reinforcement learn-
ing.
In International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations, 2022. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=
xCVJMsPv3RT.
[19] Physical Intelligence, Ali Amin, Raichelle Aniceto, Ash-
win Balakrishna, Kevin Black, Ken Conley, Grace Con-
nors, James Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Jared DiCarlo,
et al. Pi*0.6: a vla that learns from experience. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2511.14759, 2025.
[20] Physical Intelligence, Kevin Black, Noah Brown, James
Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Danny Driess, Adnan Es-
mail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, et al.
pi0.5: a vision-language-action model with open-world
generalization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16054, 2025.
[21] Petros A Ioannou and Jing Sun. Robust adaptive control,
volume 1. PTR Prentice-Hall Upper Saddle River, NJ,
1996.
[22] Joel Jang, Seonghyeon Ye, Zongyu Lin, Jiannan Xiang,
Johan Bjorck, Yu Fang, Fengyuan Hu, Spencer Huang,
Kaushil Kundalia, Yen-Chen Lin, et al.
Dreamgen:
Unlocking generalization in robot learning through video
world models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.12705, 2025.
[23] Michael Janner, Justin Fu, Marvin Zhang, and Sergey
Levine.
When to trust your model: Model-based pol-
icy optimization, 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.
08253.
[24] Dmitry Kalashnikov, Alex Irpan, Peter Pastor, Julian
Ibarz, Alexander Herzog, Eric Jang, Deirdre Quillen,
Ethan Holly, Mrinal Kalakrishnan, Vincent Vanhoucke,
and Sergey Levine. Scalable deep reinforcement learning
for vision-based robotic manipulation. In Aude Billard,
Anca Dragan, Jan Peters, and Jun Morimoto, editors,

Proceedings of The 2nd Conference on Robot Learn-
ing, volume 87 of Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, pages 651–673. PMLR, 29–31 Oct 2018. URL
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v87/kalashnikov18a.html.
[25] Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti, Ted
Xiao, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair, Rafael Rafailov,
Ethan Foster, Grace Lam, Pannag Sanketi, et al. Openvla:
An open-source vision-language-action model.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.09246, 2024.
[26] Ilya Kostrikov, Ashvin Nair, and Sergey Levine. Offline
reinforcement learning with implicit q-learning. In Inter-
national Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
[27] Aviral Kumar, Aurick Zhou, George Tucker, and Sergey
Levine. Conservative q-learning for offline reinforcement
learning, 2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.04779.
[28] JB Lanier, Kyungmin Kim, Armin Karamzade, Yifei
Liu, Ankita Sinha, Kat He, Davide Corsi, and Roy
Fox. Adapting world models with latent-state dynamics
residuals, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.02252.
[29] Joonho
Lee,
Jemin
Hwangbo,
Lorenz
Wellhausen,
Vladlen Koltun, and Marco Hutter. Learning quadrupedal
locomotion over challenging terrain. Science robotics, 5
(47):eabc5986, 2020.
[30] Kun Lei, Huanyu Li, Dongjie Yu, Zhenyu Wei, Lingxiao
Guo, Zhennan Jiang, Ziyu Wang, Shiyu Liang, and
Huazhe Xu.
Rl-100: Performant robotic manipulation
with real-world reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2510.14830, 2025.
[31] Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn, Trevor Darrell, and Pieter
Abbeel. End-to-end training of deep visuomotor policies.
Journal of Machine Learning Research, 17(39):1–40,
2016. URL http://jmlr.org/papers/v17/15-522.html.
[32] Jacob Levy, Tyler Westenbroek, and David Fridovich-
Keil. Learning to walk from three minutes of real-world
data with semi-structured dynamics models. In Confer-
ence on Robot Learning, pages 2061–2079. PMLR, 2025.
[33] Chenhao Li, Andreas Krause, and Marco Hutter. Offline
robotic world model: Learning robotic policies without
a physics simulator. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16680,
2025.
[34] Shuang Li, Yihuai Gao, Dorsa Sadigh, and Shuran
Song.
Unified video action model.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.00200, 2025.
[35] Jianlan Luo, Zheyuan Hu, Charles Xu, You Liang Tan,
Jacob Berg, Archit Sharma, Stefan Schaal, Chelsea Finn,
Abhishek Gupta, and Sergey Levine. Serl: A software
suite for sample-efficient robotic reinforcement learning.
In 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pages 16961–16969. IEEE, 2024.
[36] Mayank Mittal, Pascal Roth, James Tigue, Antoine
Richard, Octi Zhang, Peter Du, Antonio Serrano-Mu˜noz,
Xinjie Yao, Ren´e Zurbr¨ugg, Nikita Rudin, Lukasz
Wawrzyniak, Milad Rakhsha, Alain Denzler, Eric Hei-
den, Ales Borovicka, Ossama Ahmed, Iretiayo Akinola,
Abrar Anwar, Mark T. Carlson, Ji Yuan Feng, Ani-
mesh Garg, Renato Gasoto, Lionel Gulich, Yijie Guo,
M. Gussert, Alex Hansen, Mihir Kulkarni, Chenran Li,
Wei Liu, Viktor Makoviychuk, Grzegorz Malczyk, Ham-
mad Mazhar, Masoud Moghani, Adithyavairavan Mu-
rali, Michael Noseworthy, Alexander Poddubny, Nathan
Ratliff, Welf Rehberg, Clemens Schwarke, Ritvik Singh,
James Latham Smith, Bingjie Tang, Ruchik Thaker,
Matthew Trepte, Karl Van Wyk, Fangzhou Yu, Alex Mil-
lane, Vikram Ramasamy, Remo Steiner, Sangeeta Sub-
ramanian, Clemens Volk, CY Chen, Neel Jawale, Ash-
win Varghese Kuruttukulam, Michael A. Lin, Ajay Man-
dlekar, Karsten Patzwaldt, John Welsh, Huihua Zhao,
Fatima Anes, Jean-Francois Lafleche, Nicolas Mo¨enne-
Loccoz, Soowan Park, Rob Stepinski, Dirk Van Gelder,
Chris Amevor, Jan Carius, Jumyung Chang, Anka He
Chen, Pablo de Heras Ciechomski, Gilles Daviet, Mo-
hammad Mohajerani, Julia von Muralt, Viktor Reut-
skyy, Michael Sauter, Simon Schirm, Eric L. Shi, Pierre
Terdiman, Kenny Vilella, Tobias Widmer, Gordon Yeo-
man, Tiffany Chen, Sergey Grizan, Cathy Li, Lotus
Li, Connor Smith, Rafael Wiltz, Kostas Alexis, Yan
Chang, David Chu, Linxi ”Jim” Fan, Farbod Farshidian,
Ankur Handa, Spencer Huang, Marco Hutter, Yashraj
Narang, Soha Pouya, Shiwei Sheng, Yuke Zhu, Miles
Macklin, Adam Moravanszky, Philipp Reist, Yunrong
Guo, David Hoeller, and Gavriel State. Isaac lab: A gpu-
accelerated simulation framework for multi-modal robot
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.04831, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.04831.
[37] Manfred Morari and Jay H Lee.
Model predictive
control: past, present and future. Computers & chemical
engineering, 23(4-5):667–682, 1999.
[38] Yashraj Narang, Kier Storey, Iretiayo Akinola, Miles
Macklin, Philipp Reist, Lukasz Wawrzyniak, Yunrong
Guo, Adam Moravanszky, Gavriel State, Michelle Lu,
et al. Factory: Fast contact for robotic assembly. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2205.03532, 2022.
[39] Jack Parker-Holder, Philip Ball, Jake Bruce, Vibhavari
Dasagi, Kristian Holsheimer, Christos Kaplanis, Alexan-
dre Moufarek, Guy Scully, Jeremy Shar, Jimmy Shi,
Stephen Spencer, Jessica Yung, Michael Dennis, Sul-
tan Kenjeyev, Shangbang Long, Vlad Mnih, Harris
Chan, Maxime Gazeau, Bonnie Li, Fabio Pardo, Luyu
Wang, Lei Zhang, Frederic Besse, Tim Harley, Anna
Mitenkova, Jane Wang, Jeff Clune, Demis Hassabis,
Raia Hadsell, Adrian Bolton, Satinder Singh, and Tim
Rockt¨aschel. Genie 2: A large-scale foundation world
model.
2024.
URL https://deepmind.google/discover/
blog/genie-2-a-large-scale-foundation-world-model/.
[40] Samuel Pfrommer, Mathew Halm, and Michael Posa.
Contactnets: Learning discontinuous contact dynamics
with smooth, implicit representations. In Conference on
Robot Learning, pages 2279–2291. PMLR, 2021.
[41] Jean-Jacques E Slotine and Weiping Li. On the adaptive
control of robot manipulators. The international journal
of robotics research, 6(3):49–59, 1987.
[42] Laura Smith, J Chase Kew, Xue Bin Peng, Sehoon Ha,

Jie Tan, and Sergey Levine.
Legged robots that keep
on learning: Fine-tuning locomotion policies in the real
world. In 2022 international conference on robotics and
automation (ICRA), pages 1593–1599. IEEE, 2022.
[43] Laura Smith, Ilya Kostrikov, and Sergey Levine.
A
walk in the park: Learning to walk in 20 minutes
with model-free reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2208.07860, 2022.
[44] Laura Smith, Yunhao Cao, and Sergey Levine.
Grow
your limits: Continuous improvement with real-world
rl for robotic locomotion. In 2024 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages
10829–10836. IEEE, 2024.
[45] Tyler Westenbroek, Fernando Castaneda, Ayush Agrawal,
Shankar Sastry, and Koushil Sreenath. Lyapunov design
for robust and efficient robotic reinforcement learning,
2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.06721.
[46] Tyler Westenbroek, Jacob Levy, and David Fridovich-
Keil.
Enabling efficient, reliable real-world reinforce-
ment learning with approximate physics-based models.
In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 2478–2497.
PMLR, 2023.
[47] Grady Williams, Paul Drews, Brian Goldfain, James M
Rehg, and Evangelos A Theodorou.
Aggressive driv-
ing with model predictive path integral control.
In
2016 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pages 1433–1440. IEEE, 2016. doi:
10.1109/ICRA.2016.7487277.
[48] Wenli Xiao, Haoru Xue, Tony Tao, Dvij Kalaria, John M
Dolan, and Guanya Shi. Anycar to anywhere: Learning
universal dynamics model for agile and adaptive mobil-
ity. In 2025 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), pages 8819–8825. IEEE, 2025.
[49] Amber Xie, Oleh Rybkin, Dorsa Sadigh, and Chelsea
Finn. Latent diffusion planning for imitation learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16925, 2025.
[50] Jie Xu, Eric Heiden, Iretiayo Akinola, Dieter Fox, Miles
Macklin, and Yashraj Narang. Neural robot dynamics.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.15755, 2025.
[51] Mengjiao
Yang,
Yilun
Du,
Kamyar
Ghasemipour,
Jonathan Tompson, Dale Schuurmans, and Pieter Abbeel.
Learning interactive real-world simulators. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.06114, 1(2):6, 2023.
[52] Patrick Yin, Tyler Westenbroek, Simran Bagaria, Kevin
Huang, Ching-an Cheng, Andrey Kobolov, and Ab-
hishek Gupta.
Rapidly adapting policies to the real
world via simulation-guided fine-tuning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.02705, 2025.
[53] Patrick Yin, Tyler Westenbroek, Zhengyu Zhang, Ignacio
Dagnino, Eeshani Shilamkar, Numfor Mbiziwo-Tiapo,
Simran Bagaria, Xinlei Liu, Galen Mullins, Andrey
Kolobov, and Abhishek Gupta. Emergent dexterity via
diverse resets and large-scale reinforcement learning.
In The Fourteenth International Conference on Learn-
ing Representations, 2026. URL https://openreview.net/
forum?id=nAO9LcV7nE.
[54] Tianhe Yu, Garrett Thomas, Lantao Yu, Stefano Ermon,
James Y Zou, Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn, and Tengyu
Ma.
Mopo: Model-based offline policy optimization.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33:
14129–14142, 2020.
[55] Tianhe Yu, Aviral Kumar, Rafael Rafailov, Aravind Ra-
jeswaran, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn.
Combo:
Conservative offline model-based policy optimization.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 34:
28954–28967, 2021.
[56] Jiahui Zhang, Yusen Luo, Abrar Anwar, Sumedh Anand
Sontakke, Joseph J Lim, Jesse Thomason, Erdem Biyik,
and Jesse Zhang.
Rewind: Language-guided rewards
teach robot policies without new demonstrations, 2025.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10911.
[57] Zhiyuan Zhou, Andy Peng, Qiyang Li, Sergey Levine,
and Aviral Kumar. Efficient online reinforcement learn-
ing fine-tuning need not retain offline data. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.07762, 2024.
[58] Chuning Zhu, Max Simchowitz, Siri Gadipudi, and Ab-
hishek Gupta.
Repo: Resilient model-based reinforce-
ment learning by regularizing posterior predictability.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:
32445–32467, 2023.
[59] Chuning Zhu, Raymond Yu, Siyuan Feng, Benjamin
Burchfiel, Paarth Shah, and Abhishek Gupta.
Unified
world models: Coupling video and action diffusion for
pretraining on large robotic datasets.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.02792, 2025.

APPENDIX
A. Diverse Data Generation Details
Algorithm 2 details the data generation process. Data gen-
eration proceeds with running many environments in parallel.
For the j-th environment, we sample a diagonal action-
noise covariance Σj, where each element on the diagonal
is sampled between a minimum and maximum variance:
σi ∼U[σmin
i
, σmax
i
]. When each environment is reset, we
sample contiguous noise intervals during which Gaussian
noise is added to policy actions. In addition, each environ-
ment is assigned a randomly selected policy checkpoint from
{πk}K
k=1, or the expert policy πe. Together, policy mixing
and temporally structured action noise produce a dataset that
captures both expert-like trajectories and systematic deviations
beyond the optimal manifold, which is critical for world-
model training. During rollouts, we query the optimal state-
based value function V e at each visited state to generate value
targets vt for distilling an approximate optimal value function
(Section IV-A). We also record an expert action flag be
t that
distinguishes the expert actions from the expert policy πe
versus noised or earlier-checkpoint actions to support behavior
cloning (Section IV-A).
B. Manipulation Experiment Details
Expert Policy Training. For our manipulation experts we
use the expert policies πe and value function V e from [53],
replicating the training from this work exactly. For the sake of
brevity, we refer the reader to [53] for more details, including
the exact rewards we use.
Data Generation. To generate the simulation dataset Dsim,
environments are reset with sub-optimal policies {πk}K
k=1
with probability 0.5, and Gaussian action perturbations are
injected in contiguous intervals sampled from U[1, 5] steps,
interleaved with noise-free intervals sampled from U[5, 10]
steps. We generate 100k trajectories for each tasks, of which
approximately 36% optimal actions. We save policies every
100 checkpoints up to checkpoint 1000.
World Model Structure. The encoder for the world model
first passes each of the three camera images through a ResNet-
18 encoder pretrained on imagenet, producing embeddings of
size 3 × 512, which are stacked and concatenated with the
robots 6 joint observations and then passed through an MLP
to produce the latent z. Specific parameters are in Table II.
TABLE II: World model architectural parameters for manipulation.
Parameter
Value
Embedding dimension
64
All transformers MLP hidden size
256
Dynamics transformer layers
3
Dynamics transformer heads
4
Reward transformer layers
1
Reward transformer heads
1
Value transformer layers
1
Value transformer heads
1
Base policy transformer layers
4
Base policy transformer heads
8
Algorithm 2 Diverse Data Generation
1: Input: Expert policy πe, policy checkpoints {πk}K
k=1,
optimal value function V e
2: Output: Simulation dataset Dsim
3: for environment j ∈{1 . . . NE} do
4:
Sample action noise variance: Σj = diag(σ)
with σi ∼U[σmin
i
, σmax
i
]; i ∈{1, . . . , dim(A)}
5: for t = 0 to number of steps NT do
6:
for environment j ∈{1 . . . NE} do
7:
if st is terminal then
8:
Reset environment
9:
Sample noise intervals Tnoise
10:
Randomly select a policy πk from {πk}K
k=1
and assign it to the environment.
11:
εt ∼N(0, Σj) if t ∈Tnoise, else εt ←0
12:
at ←πk(st) + εt
13:
be
t ←1 if (using expert πe and εt = 0),
else be
t ←0
14:
vt ←V e(st)
15:
(st+1, ot, rt) = EnvStep(st, at)
16:
Add (ot, at, be
t, rt, vt) to Dsim
World Model Pretraining. We pretrain the world model
for two epochs over the full simulation dataset Dsim. Using a
batch size of 256 and approximately 200k gradient updates.
Optimization is performed with Adam using an initial learning
rate of 2 × 10−4, which is annealed to 1 × 10−4 via a
cosine decay schedule, with a linear warmup over the first
10,000 steps. We apply data augmentation by injecting zero-
mean Gaussian noise into the proprioceptive observations, and
visual augmentations such as color jitter, gaussian blurring and
random cropping.
Hardware Deployment. We use MPPI as implemented in
TD-MPC [15] with the hyperparameters listed in Table III.
TABLE III: MPPI parameters for manipulation.
Parameter
Value
Candidate actions batch size
250
Noised base policy actions batch size
100
Solver iterations
3
Initial action standard deviation
1.0
Minimum action standard deviation
0.05
Base policy action standard deviation
0.1
Elites
64
Temperature
0.4
Momentum
0.0
Discount
0.99
C. Quadruped Experiment Details
Expert Policy Training. We train a state-based expert pol-
icy πe and its associated optimal value function V e using PPO
in IsaacLab [36]. Both the policy and value networks are MLPs
with three hidden layers of width 512 and operate on privileged
simulator state variables listed in Table IV. The expert is
trained with a dense state-based reward composed of the terms

summarized in Table V; full implementation details will be
released with the public code. To improve robustness and cov-
erage, we apply domain randomization over the parameters in
Table IV and randomize terrain conditions across steps, boxes,
rough terrain, and slopes, using a curriculum that gradually
increases terrain difficulty. Training is performed with 4096
parallel simulation environments over 5000 PPO iterations,
with 24 environment steps per iteration, for a total of 490M
environment steps. We save policy checkpoints at iterations
{0, 50, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 400, 500, 1000, 2000}.
Data Generation. To generate the simulation dataset Dsim,
environments are reset with sub-optimal policies {πk}K
k=1
with probability 0.5, and Gaussian action perturbations are
injected in contiguous intervals sampled from U[1, 50] steps,
interleaved with noise-free intervals sampled from U[25, 500]
steps. We run 4096 parallel environments for 25000 steps,
yielding approximately 100M data points, of which 55.7%
correspond to uncorrupted expert actions. Data generation
takes approximately 7 hours with a single NVIDIA RTX 4500
Ada GPU.
World Model Structure. Figure 11 illustrates the world
model architecture, and Table VII lists the corresponding
model parameters used in the quadruped experiments. The
observation space for the quadruped is given in Table VI.
The history encoder processes a history of proprioceptive
observations (all observations except the height map) and
actions by first projecting each input, assigning a type embed-
ding to distinguish observations from actions, and interleaving
the resulting embeddings to form the history representation
ht. The latent encoder Eθ encodes the local terrain height
map using a CNN followed by spatial encoding, flattening,
and projection; this representation is concatenated with the
projected latest proprioceptive observation and passed through
an MLP to produce the latent state embedding. Commands
consist of the desired forward, lateral, and yaw velocities of
the base gt := (vx
t , vy
t , ωt). The future commands gt:t+T −1 are
concatenated to the inputs of the base policy πθ, reward model
Rθ, and value model Vθ.
TABLE IV: Privileged simulator state space for the quadruped, along with
domain randomization ranges, where applicable.
State Variable
Dim.
Domain Rand.
Base linear velocity
3
-
Base angular velocity
3
-
Projected gravity vector
3
-
Commanded base twist
3
-
Joint angles
12
-
Joint speeds
12
-
Previous action
12
-
Cosine / sine of phase
2
-
Height map
(21, 15)
-
Foot force wrenches
(4, 6)
-
Foot heights
4
-
Base mass
1
−1.0, +3.0 kg
Static / dynamic friction
2
[0.2, 1.2]
Coefficient of restitution
1
[0.0, 0.3]
Joint stiffness
12
±10%
Joint damping
12
±10%
Joint friction
12
[0.0, 0.05]
TABLE V:
State-based reward terms used for quadruped expert policy
training.
Term
Weight
Commanded x, y-velocity tracking reward
1.5
Commanded yaw rate tracking reward
0.75
Desired gait reward
0.05
Desired gait foot height reward
0.2
Base z-velocity penalty
−2.0
Base angular velocity penalty
−0.05
Base orientation penalty
−4.0
Deviation from default hip joint angles penalty
−0.25
Joint torque penalty
−2.0 × 10−4
Joint acceleration penalty
−2.5 × 10−7
Action rate penalty
−0.01
TABLE VI: Observation space for the quadruped.
Observation
Dimension
Base linear velocity (local frame)
3
Base angular velocity (local frame)
3
Projected gravity vector
3
Joint angles
12
Joint speeds
12
Cosine and sine of phase
2
Height map
(21, 15)
World Model Pretraining. We pretrain the world model
for two epochs over the full simulation dataset Dsim. Using a
batch size of 512, this corresponds to approximately 3.69×105
gradient update steps. Optimization is performed with Adam
using an initial learning rate of 2×10−4, which is annealed to
1 × 10−4 via a cosine decay schedule, with a linear warmup
over the first 10,000 steps. We apply data augmentation by
injecting zero-mean Gaussian noise into the input observations
(both proprioceptive and height map) during training. Pretrain-
ing requires approximately 28 hours on a single NVIDIA RTX
4500 Ada GPU.
Hardware Deployment. We use MPPI as implemented in
TD-MPC [15] with the hyperparameters listed in Table VIII.
To encourage straight-line locomotion during quadruped ex-
periments, we compute commanded base velocities gt from
the robot’s current base pose using a PD controller on position,
and provide these commands to the world model.
Detailed Results. Table IX reports detailed real-world
quadruped locomotion results on both tasks across commanded
TABLE VII: World model architectural parameters for the quadruped.
Parameter
Value
Embedding dimension
64
Proprioceptive observations MLP hidden dims
128, 128
CNN kernel size
3
CNN strides
2, 2, 2
CNN features
8, 16, 32
All transformers MLP hidden size
256
Dynamics transformer layers
2
Dynamics transformer heads
8
Reward transformer layers
1
Reward transformer heads
1
Value transformer layers
1
Value transformer heads
1
Base policy transformer layers
4
Base policy transformer heads
8

MLP
...
...
MLP
CNN
MLP
Proj.
Flatten
Concat
Temporal Embed,
Type Embed,
Interleave
...
Dynamics
Transformer
Decoder
...
...
...
Concat,
Project,
Temporal
embed
Project,
Temporal
embed
Project,
Temporal
embed
Policy
Transformer
Decoder
Proj.
...
...
Reward
Transformer
Encoder
Proj.
Concat,
Project,
Temporal
embed
Value
Transformer
Encoder
Proj.
...
...
Context
History Encoder
Encoder
Prediction
Base Policy
Fig. 11: Detailed world model architecture for the quadruped.
TABLE VIII: MPPI parameters for the quadruped.
Parameter
Value
Candidate actions batch size
450
Noised base policy actions batch size
22
Solver iterations
8
Initial action standard deviation
2.0
Minimum action standard deviation
0.05
Base policy action standard deviation
0.05
Elites
64
Temperature
0.25
Momentum
0.0
Discount
0.99
forward speeds. We report both success rate (successful
trials out of five) and average forward progress (mean ±
standard deviation) over all trials at each speed. The Pre-
trained model corresponds to zero-shot deployment of the
simulation-pretrained world model without any real-world
finetuning. While this model occasionally achieves partial
forward progress, it fails to complete the task reliably, high-
lighting the severity of the sim-to-real dynamics gap. The
Single-step BC policy, which serves as the initial policy for
the RLPD and IQL baselines prior to finetuning, improves
performance in some settings but remains inconsistent and
rarely achieves full task completion.
After real-world finetuning (32.1 minutes of data for Foam
and 35.7 minutes for Slippery Slope), SimDist consistently
achieves the highest success rates and forward progress across
all tested speeds. In contrast, both IQL and RLPD exhibit
limited improvement despite access to the same real-world
data budget. In particular, RLPD destabilized the robot during
adaptation on the Foam task and is therefore not reported for
that condition.
D. Ablations Details
Each ablation corresponds to a separately pretrained world
model. Across all ablations, the same planning hyperpa-
rameters and evaluation environments are used, and each
configuration is evaluated on an identical set of randomized
environments. Next, we discuss platform specific details.
Manipulation. For both manipulation tasks, we evaluate
success rates over the initial condition and domain random-
ization described in the environments from [53].
Quadruped. The robot is commanded to walk forward at
a specified target speed until episode termination. For each
evaluated model, we instantiate environments covering all
combinations of parameters listed in Table X, resulting in 1080
distinct environments per model. All models are evaluated on
the same fixed set of environments to ensure fair comparison.
Each environment is run for a single episode, during which
state-based reward is accumulated until termination. Episodes
terminate either after 1000 simulation steps or upon failure,
defined as body contact with the ground or violation of base
orientation limits. Results are summarized in Table I, where
we report the average accumulated reward per episode across
all environments.

TABLE IX:
Real-world quadruped results for both tasks. Success is reported as successful trials out of five. Forward progress is reported as mean ±
standard deviation (meters) across trials at each commanded speed. The Pretrained model corresponds to zero-shot deployment of the simulation-trained world
model. The Single-step BC policy is the behavior cloning policy used to initialize IQL and RLPD prior to finetuning. SimDist, IQL, and RLPD results
reflect performance after real-world finetuning using 35.7 minutes (Slippery Slope) and 32.1 minutes (Foam) of data. RLPD results on the Foam task are not
reported, as the method destabilized the robot prior to evaluation.
Speed
Pretrained model
Single-step BC policy
SimDist (ours)
IQL
RLPD
m s−1
Fwd. Prog.
Success
Fwd. Prog.
Success
Fwd. Prog.
Success
Fwd. Prog.
Success
Fwd. Prog.
Success
Slippery
0.1
0.70 ± 0.56
0/5
1.49 ± 0.29
2/5
1.78 ± 0.08
4/5
0.00 ± 0.00
0/5
0.32 ± 0.01
0/5
Slope
0.3
0.43 ± 0.13
0/5
1.43 ± 0.25
1/5
1.82 ± 0.00
5/5
0.39 ± 0.56
0/5
0.34 ± 0.05
0/5
0.5
0.90 ± 0.40
0/5
0.62 ± 0.23
0/5
1.82 ± 0.00
5/5
0.46 ± 0.42
0/5
0.35 ± 0.01
0/5
Foam
0.2
2.98 ± 0.02
3/5
2.07 ± 1.01
1/5
3.00 ± 0.00
5/5
0.92 ± 0.48
1/5
–
–
0.7
2.39 ± 0.71
2/5
1.54 ± 0.81
1/5
3.00 ± 0.00
5/5
2.25 ± 0.87
2/5
–
–
1.2
1.70 ± 0.99
0/5
2.45 ± 0.47
2/5
3.00 ± 0.00
5/5
2.73 ± 0.34
3/5
–
–
TABLE X: Parameter values used to construct quadruped ablation environ-
ments in simulation. Each environment is defined by a unique combination
of commanded forward speed, ground friction coefficient, terrain type, and
terrain difficulty. All combinations are evaluated for each model, yielding
1080 environments per model.
Terrain
Speed
Friction
Terrain
Difficulty
0.2
0.2
Boxes
0.2
0.4
0.4
Rough
0.4
0.6
0.6
Stairs Up
0.6
0.8
0.8
Stairs Down
0.8
1.0
1
Slope Up
1
1.2
1.2
Slope Down
