Learning a Unified Policy for Position and Force
Control in Legged Loco-Manipulation
Peiyuan Zhi1,2,∗, Peiyang Li1,3,∗, Jianqin Yin3, Baoxiong Jia1,2,†, Siyuan Huang1,2,†
1 State Key Laboratory of General Artificial Intelligence, BIGAI
2 Joint Laboratory of Embodied AI and Humanoid Robots, BIGAI & UniTree Robotics
3 Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications
https://unified-force.github.io/
∗Equal contribution.
† Corresponding authors.
Figure 1: We present a unified force-position policy for legged robots that enables diverse loco-
manipulation behaviors, including position tracking, force application, and compliant interactions
(top). When used for imitation learning data collection, the policy’s learned internal force estimator
provides force-aware demonstrations, improving model performance in contact-rich tasks without
external force sensors (middle). Results on quadruped and humanoid robots demonstrate the policy’s
versatility and robustness (bottom).
Abstract: Robotic loco-manipulation often involves contact-rich interactions
with the environment, requiring the joint modeling of contact force and robot posi-
tion. However, recent visuomotor policies often focus solely on learning position
or force control, overlooking their co-learning. We propose the first unified policy
for legged robots that jointly models force and position control learned without re-
lying on force sensors. By simulating diverse combinations of position and force
commands alongside external disturbance forces, we use reinforcement learning
to learn a policy that estimates forces from historical robot states and compensates
for them through position and velocity adjustments. This policy enables a wide
range of manipulation behaviors under varying force and position inputs, includ-
ing position tracking, force application, force tracking, and compliant interactions.
Moreover, we demonstrate that the learned policy enhances trajectory-based imita-
tion learning pipelines by incorporating essential contact information through its
force estimation module, achieving approximately ∼39.5% higher success rates
in four challenging contact-rich manipulation tasks over position-control policies.
Experiments on both a quadrupedal manipulator and a humanoid robot validate
the versatility and robustness of the proposed policy in diverse scenarios.
Keywords: Unified Force and Position Control, Force-aware Imitation Learning
9th Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL 2025), Seoul, Korea.
arXiv:2505.20829v2  [cs.RO]  4 Oct 2025

1
Introduction
Legged robots have recently advanced in locomotion and manipulation [1, 2, 3, 4], enabling them
to traverse complex terrains (e.g., stairs) and extend their workspace through adaptive body pos-
ture, revitalizing interest in loco-manipulation [5, 6, 7, 8]. However, controlling legged manipu-
lators is challenging due to their complex kinematic structures. This difficulty is further exacer-
bated in contact-rich manipulation tasks, where accurate modeling of contact forces is essential
for desired control behaviors (e.g., compliance), yet is hindered by the absence of force-sensing
hardware. These challenges underscore the need for robust, adaptable policies to support effective
robot-environment and human-robot interactions.
To tackle the control challenge of legged manipulators, reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms have
emerged as effective alternatives to traditional control methods, offering robust and generalizable
policies trained through domain randomization [2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]. These policies integrate locomo-
tion and manipulation in complex tasks but primarily depend on precise position control, limiting
their applicability in contact-rich scenarios. This reliance has also driven the rise of position-based
robot imitation learning [11, 12, 13, 14, 15], with large datasets [13, 16, 17, 18] focused solely on
robot trajectories, omitting crucial contact information due to the lack of force sensing. As shown
in Section 4.2, such trajectory-only data is insufficient for training effective policies, even for basic
contact-rich tasks (e.g., wiping a blackboard). This underscores the limitation of position control
and emphasizes the necessity of integrating force sensing and modeling into learning-based policies
for more effective task execution.
In light of the aforementioned challenges and observations, we propose the first unified policy for
legged robots that seamlessly integrates force and position control without the need for force
sensors. Unlike previous methods [9] that handle force and position control independently, we train
a single control policy using RL in Isaac Gym [19] by simulating diverse combinations of position
and force commands alongside external disturbance forces. The policy leverages a force estimator to
predict external forces based on the robot’s historical states and offsets to target positions, enabling
adaptive adjustments to the robot’s position and velocity. The learned policy supports versatile
manipulation behaviors, including position tracking, force application, force tracking, and compliant
responses to varied force and position inputs. We also verify the generalizability of this learning
framework to different robot embodiments through an extensive spectrum of 7 experiments on both
the Unitree B2-Z1 quadrupedal manipulator platform and the Unitree G1 humanoid robot.
Additionally, we highlight the capabilities of the learned policy in facilitating imitation learning with
contact force information. Specifically, we develop a force-aware data collection pipeline that uti-
lizes our learned policy as the base teleoperation policy, simultaneously passing position and force
commands to the robot while collecting contact-rich manipulation data via the embedded contact
force estimator. We validate the effectiveness of this data by integrating the estimated force into a
position-based imitation learning policy, leading to a significant improvement (∼39.5%) in suc-
cess rates over the vanilla position-based methods across three challenging contact-rich tasks.
These experimental results underscore the potential of our learned policy as a general framework for
curating contact-rich robot interaction data, particularly in the absence of explicit force sensors.
Overall, our contributions can be summarized as follows:
1. We propose the first model for learning unified force and position control in legged loco-
manipulation, enabling diverse control behaviors such as position tracking, force control, and
compliance with a single policy.
2. Through 7 experiments on a quadrupedal manipulator and a humanoid robot, we demonstrate the
effectiveness and robustness of our learned policy across diverse and challenging task scenarios.
3. We develop a force-aware robot imitation learning data collection pipeline using our learned force
estimator, improving position-based imitation learning baselines by ∼39.5% on three challeng-
ing contact-rich manipulation tasks, highlighting our policy’s promise as a general and efficient
framework for contact-rich task demonstration curation.
2

2
Related Works
Whole-body Control
Whole body control (WBC) has been widely adopted to enhance robotic ca-
pabilities in mobile manipulation, particularly within classical control frameworks [5, 20, 21]. More
recently, RL with parallel simulators [19, 22] has become the mainstream approach for addressing
complex control challenges in legged robots. Several learning-based methods [6, 7, 23, 24, 25]
have improved the robustness of WBC, while others have extended its application to force-intensive
tasks [26, 27, 28, 29, 30]. For instance, [27] coordinates joint movements to apply sufficient force
during pushing, and ALMA[29] combines WBC with force control to achieve precise end-effector
actuation. [30] integrates Cartesian impedance control into a QP formulation, enabling compliant
loco-manipulation through a double mass-damper-spring model. These works collectively highlight
WBC’s effectiveness in unifying force and position control.
Hybrid Force and Position Control
In contact-rich manipulation tasks, relying solely on end-
effector trajectory control is often insufficient due to the inherent coupling between force and po-
sition. Early work [31, 32, 33, 34], including the introduction of impedance control [34], laid the
foundation for hybrid force-position strategies. Recent studies [1, 9, 35, 36, 37] have advanced
compliance control, with some leveraging force sensors and others estimating force indirectly via
internal signals or reinforcement learning. Inspired by these trends, our work eliminates the need for
force sensors by using reinforcement learning to train a quadruped robot to simultaneously control
force and position. This enables flexible switching between force following, impedance control, and
hybrid modes through different command configurations.
Imitation Learning for Mobile Manipulation
Imitation learning [38, 39, 40, 41, 42] has re-
cently become a prominent approach for training robots to perform various tasks. Behavior cloning
(BC) [43, 44] is a straightforward method of imitation learning that learns policies by supervising
observation-action pairs from expert demonstrations. Studies leveraging image data and proprio-
ceptive sensing [8, 45, 46, 47] to generate robot control commands have shown remarkable success
in mobile manipulation tasks. Furthermore, recent research [48, 49] has begun incorporating tactile
sensing to enhance the sensory capabilities of robots. Similarly, our work utilizes force inputs with-
out relying on force sensors, demonstrating that force information is critical in enabling robots to
complete challenging tasks effectively.
3
Method
3.1
A Unified Formulation for Force and Position Control
We begin by introducing the general problem formulation of our approach. As shown in the upper
part in Fig. 2(c), given the position command relative to the robot body frame and force command,
x
cmd and F
cmd, our goal is to learn a RL policy that ensures the robot’s behavior adheres to these
commands under net force F . To achieve this goal, we adopt the impedance control formulation:
F = K(x −x
des) + D(
_x −
_x
des) + M(
x −
x
des);
(1)
where x denotes the actual position of the robot. x
des, _x
des, and x
des denotes the desired goal
position, velocity, and acceleration of the robot. The parameters K, D, and M correspond to the
stiffness and damping coefficients, and equivalent mass (inertia), respectively.
End-effector Modeling
As the end-effector typically moves slowly during manipulation tasks, we
can make the following simplification over Eq. (1): F = K(x −x
des). The net force F primarily
consists of three components: the active force F
cmd, the passive reaction force F
react which arises
from applying F
cmd to the environment, and additional external disturbances F
ext. Therefore, the
desired target position x
target of the end-effector is given by:
x
target = x
cmd +
F
ext + (F
cmd −F
react)
K
;
(2)
3

Encoder
Action
50Hz
Actor
PD 
Position Cmd
Force Cmd
Last Action
Base State
Joint State
History
Proprioception
Estimator
External Force
MSE
Loss
Estimated Force
(b) Imitation
Learning in Real World
RGB
Estimated  Force
Proprioception
2Hz
Position
Cmd
Force
Cmd
Diffusion
Policy
(d) Force Cmd  & Ext. Sampling
(a) Reinforment Learning in Simulator
RÕÔæØ
Öà×
RÕÔæØ
çÔåÚØç
(ÕÔæØ
Øºç E(ÕÔæØ
Öà×
TØØ
çÔåÚØç
TØØ
Öà×
(ØØØºç
(ØØÖà×
RÕÔæØ
Öà×
RÕÔæØ
çÔåÚØç
(ÕÔæØ
Øºç E(ÕÔæØ
Öà×
(c) Real & Sim Deployment
Position 
compensation
Velocity 
compensation 
Figure 2: Method Overview. (a) Architecture of the unified position-force policy trained via rein-
forcement learning to track position and force commands under external disturbances. (b) Force-
aware imitation learning enabled by demonstrations collected using our learned policy, without re-
quiring force sensors. (c) Illustration of position and velocity compensation for force interactions
modeled at both the end-effector and the robot base. (d) Visualization of sampled force commands
and disturbances used to simulate diverse contact scenarios during policy training.
where the environment reaction force prevents the end-effector from reaching the commanded po-
sition x
cmd. Under the formulation of Eq. (2), several manipulation behaviors can be derived by
appropriately specifying the position command x
cmd and force command F
cmd, including Position
Control, Force Control, Impedance Control and Hybrid Position and Force Control. We present
a detailed formulation of these control behaviors in Section A. In complex scenarios involving si-
multaneous position commands, force commands, and external disturbances, the system adheres to
Eq. (2), integrating these basic control modes.
Multi-contact Modeling
For other robot body parts beyond the end-effector, the formulation
in Eq. (2) can be extended accordingly. Taking the robot base as an example, we typically care
not about its joint state, but rather its velocity or global position. In such cases, Eq. (2) can be sim-
plified by assuming the robot is controlled through base velocity commands. Specifically, given the
velocity and force commands v
cmd
base =
_x
cmd
base and F
cmd
base , along with external disturbances F
ext
base, we
can derive from Eq. (1):
F
base = D(
_x
base −_x
des
base) = D(v
base −v
des
base);
(3)
where we omit the position term because global position of the base is not available. Here, F
base =
F
ext
base + (F
cmd
base −F
react
base ) is the net force and transform Eq. (2) into:
v
target
base = v
cmd
base +
F
ext
base + (F
cmd
base −F
react
base )
D
:
(4)
After this transformation, we can implement similar basic control modes using derivations from
Eq. (4). Furthermore, this formulation can be extended to scenarios where external disturbances and
force commands on body parts are transformed to end-effectors by converting the net force on the
robot base F
base into an external force to the end-effector F
base2ee, and vice versa. However, due to
the learning complexity of such methods, this work focuses on treating the end-effector and robot
base independently, leaving the integrated derivation as important future work.
As a summary, we build our policy learning with reward provided following Eqs. (2) and (4) which
models the behavior of the end-effector and the base of the legged robot considering both active and
passive forces. We provide the detailed training settings and model in Section 3.2.
4

3.2
Learning a Unified Force-Position Control Policy
We detail the learning of the proposed unified force-position control policy by first defining the space
of observations, commands, and actions. Specifically, we define the robot’s observation o
t with the
robot’s base orientation g
base
t
, angular velocity !
base
t
, joint position q
t, joint velocities _q
t, previous
action a t−1, command c cmd
t
, and the feet clock timings  feet
t
:
o
t =

g
base
t
; !
base
t
; q
t; _q
t; a
t−1; c
cmd
t
; 
feet
t

(5)
where the input command c cmd
t
= [v
cmd
base; x
cmd
ee ; F
cmd
ee ; F
cmd
base ] covers the base velocity, end-effector
position, end-effector force, and base force commands. For quadrupedal robots, we consider all
four command types. For humanoid robots, only the locomotion command v
cmd
base and base force
command F
cmd
base are considered as there is no gripper available on the robot for manipulation tasks.
The output action a t is a residual added to a predefined default pose and q
target
t
are the joint position
targets for the PD controller, calculated as q
target
t
= 
aa t +q
default, where 
a scales the policy output
and q
default represents a standard pose.
Policy Design
We provide an overview of our policy model in Fig. 2(a). Our policy model com-
prises three modules: the observation encoder, the state estimator, and the actor. The encoder pro-
cesses the observation history o
[t−H,...,t−1,t] (H = 32) and outputs a latent feature, which is then
sent to the state estimator and the actor. The state estimator then predicts the robot’s state, including
the external force F = F
ext +F
react, the end-effector position, and the base velocity. This estimated
force could then be translated to command signals in certain desired control behaviors.
Force Simulation
To simulate diverse scenarios for learning the unified force-position policy, we
randomly sample position, velocity, and force commands, along with external net forces as required
in Eqs. (2) and (4). The ranges of input commands and external forces are detailed in Section C.1.
Notably, the reaction force F
react is not modeled explicitly but is incorporated into the net external
force F = F
ext + F
react. The sampling range of x
cmd slightly exceeds the arm’s original workspace
without whole-body movement, while ensuring that the resulting x
target
ee
remains within the oper-
ational limits when whole-body motion is allowed. During training, as illustrated in Fig. 2(d),
sampled forces are linearly ramped up to target values, held constant for a fixed interval, and then
reduced back to zero according to a pre-defined schedule. After a brief zero-force period, new forces
are and the cycle repeats. This sampling strategy exposes the policy to a variety of control condi-
tions, echoing the different desired control behavior discussed in Section 3.1 and enabling a single
policy to adapt to varying control task demands.
Policy Learning
We adopt a two-stage training procedure: first focusing on whole-body reaching
and locomotion, then introducing random force commands and external disturbances. This staged
approach empirically yields more stable training than a single-stage setup, as further analyzed in Sec-
tion C. Policy learning is supervised by rewarding accurate tracking of the target end-effector posi-
tion x
target
ee
and base velocity v
target
base under varying input and disturbance combinations. Additionally,
an MSE loss is used to improve the accuracy of the state estimator for both robot state and external
force. Full reward specifications are provided in Table A.1.
3.3
Force-aware Imitation Learning
Recognizing the importance of force information in real-world manipulation tasks and its absence
in most existing datasets, we leverage our learned force-position policy to collect force-aware data
for imitation learning. Concretely, we teleoperate the robot to record joint states, base states, control
commands, estimated end-effector contact forces, and RGB images from cameras mounted on both
the end-effector and the robot base. This data is used to train a diffusion-based force-aware imitation
learning policy that takes as input the robot states, estimated forces, and image observations, and
predicts both force and end-effector position commands as inputs to our low-level force-position
policy. Unlike prior works relying solely on visual inputs, our force estimator supplements the
policy with contact information, enabling more accurate object interaction and force application. We
5

Position estimation error (m)
Tracking error w/o force (m)
Tracking error with force (m)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Figure 3: Force and position control evaluation. (a)–(c) Evaluation of force and position control
tracking errors in simulation environments. (d) Real-world evaluation of force control, shaded areas
indicate variance measured across 5 different end-effector positions.
validate the impact of the collected data and the effectiveness of our approach in Section 4.2. Details
of the teleoperation pipeline and training procedures are provided in Section B and Section D.
4
Experiment
4.1
Force and Position Command Tracking
Position Tracking
To evaluate performance in simulation, we conduct 6000-step rollouts with ran-
domly generated end-effector trajectories with position commands only, covering the entire training
workspace. We report the average position tracking and estimation errors across these trials. As
shown in Fig. 3(b), the end-effector tracking error remains mostly within 0.1m when in the absence
of external forces and force commands. Slightly higher errors are observed along the Y-axis, likely
due to fewer available degrees of freedom in that direction, which limits precision. We also assess the
accuracy of the state estimator by comparing the estimated end-effector positions with ground-truth
simulation values. Across all axes, the estimation error remains within 0.05m, as shown in Fig. 3(a).
Force Control
We evaluate the ability of our proposed policy to estimate and act with forces
under two settings. First, we assess position tracking performance when the policy receives force
commands that match the applied external forces, serving as an indirect evaluation for evaluating
unified force-position control. As shown in Fig. 3(c), compared to the experiment without external
forces, tracking error increases slightly compared to the no-force setting but remains mostly within
0.1m, demonstrating effective force-aware behavior. Second, we conduct a direct force control
evaluation on real robots by applying force commands ranging from 0 N to 60 N and measuring
end-effector forces using a dynamometer. Measurements at five different end-effector positions yield
average errors within 10 N, as shown in Fig. 3(d). Force estimation across six discrete levels shows
errors between 5–10 N. Due to hardware limitations, evaluations along the Y- and Z-axes are capped
at 40 N. Despite minor sim-to-real discrepancies, particularly along the Y-axis, the estimator remains
sufficiently accurate for the targeted manipulation tasks. More analyses are provided in Section E.
4.2
Force-aware Imitation Learning
Task Settings
We evaluate our method on four real-world tasks that require hybrid force-
position control and force sensing: wipe-blackboard, open-cabinet, close-cabinet, and
open-drawer-occlusion. In the wipe-blackboard task, the robot must maintain continuous
contact with the surface while moving laterally to erase ink marks. We collect 50 trajectories and
trained the force-aware diffusion policy for 30k steps. In open-cabinet and close-cabinet, the
robot interacts with a push-to-open cabinet, while in open-drawer-occlusion, it opens a drawer
that gradually becomes occluded in visual observations (see the setup in Fig. A.8). For each of
6

(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 4: Force-aware imitation learning. (a) Time-series outputs of position and force commands
to the trained force-aware imitation policy in the wipe-blackboard task. cmd denotes the output
of the imitation learning policy, while pred indicates the external force estimated by the low-level
policy. (b) A visualization of the data collection process. (c) The performance comparison between
our policy and a baseline vision-only policy over 50 trials across four tasks.
the three open/close tasks, we collect 30 episodes per task and train the policy for 20k steps. As a
baseline, we deploy the trained low-level policy but exclude the force estimator and force command
signals during teleoperation data collection. Each task is performed 50 times with each trial con-
strained to a maximum of 10 steps (∼20 seconds) for successful completion. For completeness,
we provide additional details about the task definitions and experimental settings in Section D.
Results and Analyses
In Fig. 4 , we compare our method to the baseline in the four real-world
tasks. Our approach achieves ∼39.5% higher success rates than the baseline. In wipe-blackboard,
the position-only policy fails to maintain stable contact, often resulting in insufficient wiping or ex-
cessive force that risks surface damage. In contrast, our force-aware policy ensures consistent con-
tact pressure, while the low-level policy improves compliance and reduces mechanical stress. For
open- and close-cabinet, the primary challenge lies in the push-to-open mechanism’s narrow
3mm stroke, which is difficult to detect using vision alone. Our force estimator accurately senses
the required contact force, enabling reliable activation. In open-drawer-occlusion, the baseline
policy, relying solely on visual cues, suffers a sharp success rate drop to 0.3 due to unobservable con-
tact. Our method leverages force sensing to detect contact under occlusion, increasing the success
rate to 0.76 and underscoring the importance of force estimation in vision-compromised scenarios.
We provide all quantitative comparisons and additional details in Section D.
4.3
Basic Manipulation Policies
Force Control
Force control directly applies a commanded force by moving the end-effector in
the force direction until the applied and commanded forces match. Our unified strategy requires no
additional training; following Eq. (A.7), where the sum of the estimated external force and the force
command determines displacement compensation until equilibrium is achieved. As demonstrated in
Fig. 5(a) and the supplementary video, when a 2:5kg dumbbell is attached to the end-effector, the
robot achieves balance with a 25N upward force command. Without this command, however, the
end-effector drops due to the dumbbell’s gravity.
Force tracking
Force tracking is a special case of force control where the end-effector tracks a
zero-force command. When external forces are applied, the end-effector moves in the force direc-
tion. Once the force is removed, it stays in the displaced position instead of returning to the original
target. This behavior is implemented using our unified policy, following Eq. (A.9). As shown in
7

(c) Force tracking
(d) Impedance control
(b) Base force tracking
25N upper Force cmd
Zero Force cmd
2.5kg payload
(a) F orce control
Figure 5: Diverse skills facilitated by our policy. (a) Force control: The robot counteracts gravity
to support a payload when given a 25N force command. (d) Base force tracking: The robot responds
compliantly to pushes on its base, enabling intuitive human guidance. (c) Force tracking: The robot
tracks a zero-force command by minimizing external force interactions. (d) Impedance control: The
robot adjusts its whole-body posture to counteract and comply with external disturbances.
Fig. 5(c) and the supplementary video, this capability is demonstrated by setting the force command
to zero. In this case, the end-effector follows the external force and remains in the displaced position
after the force is removed, achieving effective force tracking.
Impedance Control
A key application of force control is impedance control, where the end-
effector tracks a target position while responding compliantly to external forces, following the dy-
namics of a spring-mass-damper system. We implement impedance control using the unified policy,
following Eq. (A.8). As shown in Fig. 5(d) and the supplementary video, we demonstrate this
capability in human-robot tug-of-war and arm-wrestling scenarios. In these tasks, the further the
end-effector deviates from the target position, the greater the resistive force exerted by the robot,
showcasing impedance behavior.
4.4
Cross Embodiment Performance
To validate the cross-embodiment capability of our unified policy,we tested it on the Unitree G1
humanoid robot and Unitree B2-Z1 quadrupedal manipulator. For locomotion, unlike manipulation
tasks where force compensation applies directly to the end-effector, we adjust the robot base velocity
to compensate for external forces, following Eq. (4). As shown in the third row of Fig. 1, when
the compensated velocity equals and opposes the velocity command, the humanoid robot halts and
leans its body to maintain balance. Similarly, as shown in Fig. 5(b), the quadrupedal robot begins
walking forward when kicked, even with zero force and velocity commands.
5
Conclusion
We propose a unified force-position control policy for legged robots, enabling contact-rich loco-
manipulation tasks without explicit force sensors. Using reinforcement learning, our policy esti-
mates external forces from historical states and compensates for them through position and velocity
adjustments. This approach supports diverse behaviors like position tracking, force application, and
compliance. Additionally, integrating force estimation into imitation learning improves task suc-
cess in contact-rich environments. Experiments on quadrupedal and humanoid robots validate the
policy’s adaptability and robustness in real-world scenarios.
8

6
Limitations and Future Work
First, while the policy successfully estimates external forces without direct force sensing, its ac-
curacy tends to degrade in high-frequency interactions and at the edges of the robot’s workspace.
Future work could focus on improving force estimation in these corner cases. One possible direction
is to incorporate velocity and acceleration terms from Eq. (2) to enhance force estimation, allowing
the model to better capture dynamic interactions.
Second, while our policy generalizes well from simulation to real-world deployment, discrepancies
remain due to the sim-to-real gap, particularly in force accuracy along different coordinate axes.
These differences likely stem from mismatches in actuator dynamics and contact modeling between
simulation and real hardware. Future work could explore techniques such as domain randomization
and real-to-sim corrections to improve robustness across varying real-world conditions.
Additionally, our current framework primarily focuses on estimating force at a single interaction
point. Future work could explore multi-point force estimation and whole-body force interaction
tasks. For example, in scenarios such as a quadrupedal robot opening a heavy door, the robot could
use its body to brace against the door while simultaneously using its manipulator to press down on
the handle. Developing policies that coordinate multiple contact forces across different body parts
could enable more complex and effective real-world interactions.
References
[1] J. Hwangbo, J. Lee, A. Dosovitskiy, D. Bellicoso, V. Tsounis, V. Koltun, and M. Hutter. Learn-
ing agile and dynamic motor skills for legged robots. Science Robotics, 4(26):eaau5872, 2019.
2, 3
[2] Z. Zhuang, S. Yao, and H. Zhao.
Humanoid parkour learning.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.10759, 2024. 2
[3] T. He, C. Zhang, W. Xiao, G. He, C. Liu, and G. Shi. Agile but safe: Learning collision-free
high-speed legged locomotion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.17583, 2024. 2
[4] D. Hoeller, N. Rudin, D. Sako, and M. Hutter. Anymal parkour: Learning agile navigation for
quadrupedal robots. Science Robotics, 9(88):eadi7566, 2024. 2
[5] J.-P. Sleiman, F. Farshidian, and M. Hutter. Versatile multicontact planning and control for
legged loco-manipulation. Science Robotics, 8(81):eadg5014, 2023. 2, 3
[6] Z. Fu, X. Cheng, and D. Pathak. Deep whole-body control: learning a unified policy for
manipulation and locomotion.
In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 138–149. PMLR,
2023. 2, 3
[7] M. Liu, Z. Chen, X. Cheng, Y. Ji, R. Qiu, R. Yang, and X. Wang. Visual whole-body control
for legged loco-manipulation. The 8th Conference on Robot Learning, 2024. 2, 3
[8] R.-Z. Qiu, Y. Song, X. Peng, S. A. Suryadevara, G. Yang, M. Liu, M. Ji, C. Jia, R. Yang, X. Zou,
et al. Wildlma: Long horizon loco-manipulation in the wild. arXiv preprint arXiv:241.15131,
2024. 2, 3
[9] T. Portela, G. B. Margolis, Y. Ji, and P. Agrawal. Learning force control for legged manipula-
tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.01402, 2024. 2, 3
[10] Z. Zhuang, Z. Fu, J. Wang, C. Atkeson, S. Schwertfeger, C. Finn, and H. Zhao. Robot parkour
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.0565, 2023. 2
[11] M. Shridhar, L. Manuelli, and D. Fox. Perceiver-actor: A multi-task transformer for robotic
manipulation. In Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2023. 2
9

[12] C. Chi, Z. Xu, S. Feng, E. Cousineau, Y. Du, B. Burchfiel, R. Tedrake, and S. Song. Diffusion
policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion. The International Journal of Robotics
Research, page 02783649241273668, 2023. 2
[13] A. Brohan, N. Brown, J. Carbajal, Y. Chebotar, X. Chen, K. Choromanski, T. Ding, D. Driess,
A. Dubey, C. Finn, et al. Rt-2: Vision-language-action models transfer web knowledge to
robotic control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15818, 2023. 2
[14] O. M. Team, D. Ghosh, H. Walke, K. Pertsch, K. Black, O. Mees, S. Dasari, J. Hejna,
T. Kreiman, C. Xu, et al.
Octo: An open-source generalist robot policy.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.1213, 2024. 2
[15] K. Black, N. Brown, D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. Equi, C. Finn, N. Fusai, L. Groom, K. Hausman,
B. Ichter, et al. A vision-language-action flow model for general robot control. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.24164, 2024. 2
[16] H. R. Walke, K. Black, T. Z. Zhao, Q. Vuong, C. Zheng, P. Hansen-Estruch, A. W. He, V. My-
ers, M. J. Kim, M. Du, et al. Bridgedata v2: A dataset for robot learning at scale. In Conference
on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2023. 2
[17] A. Khazatsky, K. Pertsch, S. Nair, A. Balakrishna, S. Dasari, S. Karamcheti, S. Nasiriany,
M. K. Srirama, L. Y. Chen, K. Ellis, et al. Droid: A large-scale in-the-wild robot manipulation
dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.12945, 2024. 2
[18] A. O’Neill, A. Rehman, A. Maddukuri, A. Gupta, A. Padalkar, A. Lee, A. Pooley, A. Gupta,
A. Mandlekar, A. Jain, et al. Open x-embodiment: Robotic learning datasets and rt-x models:
Open x-embodiment collaboration 0. In 2024 IE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pages 6892–6903. IEEE, 2024. 2
[19] V. Makoviychuk, L. Wawrzyniak, Y. Guo, M. Lu, K. Storey, M. Macklin, D. Hoeller, N. Rudin,
A. Allshire, A. Handa, et al. Isaac gym: High performance gpu-based physics simulation for
robot learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.10470, 2021. 2, 3, 14
[20] J.-P. Sleiman, F. Farshidian, M. V. Minniti, and M. Hutter. A unified mpc framework for
whole-body dynamic locomotion and manipulation. IE Robotics and Automation Leters, 6
(3):4688–4695, 2021. 3
[21] M. P. Polverini, A. Laurenzi, E. M. Hoffman, F. Ruscelli, and N. G. Tsagarakis. Multi-contact
heavy object pushing with a centaur-type humanoid robot: Planning and control for a real
demonstrator. IE Robotics and Automation Leters, 5(2):859–866, 2020. 3
[22] N. Rudin, D. Hoeller, P. Reist, and M. Hutter. Learning to walk in minutes using massively
parallel deep reinforcement learning. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 91–100. PMLR,
2022. 3
[23] G. Pan, Q. Ben, Z. Yuan, G. Jiang, Y. Ji, J. Pang, H. Liu, and H. Xu. Roboduet: A framework af-
fording mobile-manipulation and cross-embodiment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.17367, 2024.
3
[24] Y. Ma, F. Farshidian, T. Miki, J. Lee, and M. Hutter. Combining learning-based locomotion
policy with model-based manipulation for legged mobile manipulators. IE Robotics and
Automation Leters, 7(2):2377–2384, 2022. 3
[25] J. Wang, J. Rajabov, C. Xu, Y. Zheng, and H. Wang. Quadwbg: Generalizable quadrupedal
whole-body grasping. arXiv preprint arXiv:241.06782, 2024. 3
[26] M. P. Murphy, B. Stephens, Y. Abe, and A. A. Rizzi. High degree-of-freedom dynamic ma-
nipulation. In Unmaned Systems Technology XIV, volume 8387, pages 339–348. SPIE, 2012.
3
10

[27] M. Murooka, S. Nozawa, Y. Kakiuchi, K. Okada, and M. Inaba. Whole-body pushing manip-
ulation with contact posture planning of large and heavy object for humanoid robot. In 2015
IE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 5682–5689. IEEE,
2015. 3
[28] B. U. Rehman, M. Focchi, J. Lee, H. Dallali, D. G. Caldwell, and C. Semini. Towards a
multi-legged mobile manipulator. In 2016 IE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pages 3618–3624. IEEE, 2016. 3
[29] C. D. Bellicoso, K. Kr¨amer, M. St¨auble, D. Sako, F. Jenelten, M. Bjelonic, and M. Hutter.
Alma-articulated locomotion and manipulation for a torque-controllable robot. In 2019 Inter-
national conference on robotics and automation (ICRA), pages 8477–8483. IEEE, 2019. 3
[30] M. Risiglione, V. Barasuol, D. G. Caldwell, and C. Semini. A whole-body controller based on
a simplified template for rendering impedances in quadruped manipulators. In 202 IE/RSJ
International Conference on Inteligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 9620–9627. IEEE,
2022. 3
[31] M. H. Raibert and J. J. Craig. Hybrid position/force control of manipulators. 1981. 3, 13
[32] M. T. Mason. Compliance and force control for computer controlled manipulators. IE
Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, 11(6):418–432, 1981. 3
[33] T. Yoshikawa. Dynamic hybrid position/force control of robot manipulators–description of
hand constraints and calculation of joint driving force. IE Journal on Robotics and Automa-
tion, 3(5):386–392, 1987. 3
[34] N. Hogan.
Impedance control: An approach to manipulation.
In 1984 American control
conference, pages 304–313. IEEE, 1984. 3
[35] X. Zhang, L. Sun, Z. Kuang, and M. Tomizuka. Learning variable impedance control via
inverse reinforcement learning for force-related tasks. IE Robotics and Automation Leters,
6(2):2225–2232, 2021. 3
[36] Y. Hou, Z. Liu, C. Chi, E. Cousineau, N. Kuppuswamy, S. Feng, B. Burchfiel, and S. Song.
Adaptive compliance policy: Learning approximate compliance for diffusion guided control.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.09309, 2024. 3
[37] J. de Wolde, L. Knoedler, G. Garofalo, and J. Alonso-Mora. Current-based impedance control
for interacting with mobile manipulators. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.13079, 2024. 3
[38] K. Bousmalis, G. Vezzani, D. Rao, C. M. Devin, A. X. Lee, M. B. Villalonga, T. Davchev,
Y. Zhou, A. Gupta, A. Raju, et al. Robocat: A self-improving generalist agent for robotic
manipulation. Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2023. 3
[39] O. Mees, D. Ghosh, K. Pertsch, K. Black, H. R. Walke, S. Dasari, J. Hejna, T. Kreiman, C. Xu,
J. Luo, et al. Octo: An open-source generalist robot policy. In First Workshop on Vision-
Language Models for Navigation and Manipulation at ICRA 2024, 2024. 3
[40] Q. Vuong, S. Levine, H. R. Walke, K. Pertsch, A. Singh, R. Doshi, C. Xu, J. Luo, L. Tan,
D. Shah, et al. Open x-embodiment: Robotic learning datasets and rt-x models. In Towards
Generalist Robots: Learning Paradigms for Scalable Skil Acquisition@ CoRL2023, 2023. 3
[41] J. Yang, D. Sadigh, and C. Finn. Polybot: Training one policy across robots while embracing
variability. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.03719, 2023. 3
[42] H.-S. Fang, H. Fang, Z. Tang, J. Liu, C. Wang, J. Wang, H. Zhu, and C. Lu. Rh20t: A com-
prehensive robotic dataset for learning diverse skills in one-shot. In 2024 IE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 653–660. IEEE, 2024. 3
11

[43] D. A. Pomerleau. Alvinn: An autonomous land vehicle in a neural network. Advances in
neural information procesing systems, 1, 1988. 3
[44] M. Bojarski, D. D. Testa, D. Dworakowski, B. Firner, B. Flepp, P. Goyal, L. D. Jackel, M. Mon-
fort, U. Muller, J. Zhang, X. Zhang, J. Zhao, and K. Zieba. End to end learning for self-driving
cars, 2016. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1604.07316. 3
[45] Z. Fu, T. Z. Zhao, and C. Finn. Mobile aloha: Learning bimanual mobile manipulation with
low-cost whole-body teleoperation. In Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2024. 3
[46] H. Ha, Y. Gao, Z. Fu, J. Tan, and S. Song. Umi on legs: Making manipulation policies mobile
with manipulation-centric whole-body controllers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10353, 2024. 3
[47] Z. He, K. Lei, Y. Ze, K. Sreenath, Z. Li, and H. Xu.
Learning visual quadrupedal loco-
manipulation from demonstrations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.20328, 2024. 3
[48] T. Lin, Y. Zhang, Q. Li, H. Qi, B. Yi, S. Levine, and J. Malik. Learning visuotactile skills with
two multifingered hands. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16823, 2024. 3
[49] W. Yang, A. Angleraud, R. S. Pieters, J. Pajarinen, and J.-K. K¨am¨ar¨ainen. Seq2seq imitation
learning for tactile feedback-based manipulation. In 2023 IE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 5829–5836. IEEE, 2023. 3
[50] J. Schulman, F. Wolski, P. Dhariwal, A. Radford, and O. Klimov. Proximal policy optimization
algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347, 2017. 14
12

A
Problem Formulation
Our policy enables a wide range of manipulation behaviors under varying force and position inputs,
including position control, force control, impedance control, and hybrid position and force control.
Under the formulation of Eq. (2), we can easily derive the following basic manipulation policies:
a) Position Control: When there is no external disturbance or active force command applied,
Eq. (2) becomes
x
target = x
cmd;
(A.6)
where the target end-effector position x
target should reach the commanded position x
cmd.
b) Force Control: When in contact with the environment and applying a force F
cmd without
external disturbances, the desired goal position of the end-effector is defined following
Eq. (2) as:
x
target = x
cmd +
(F
cmd −F
react)
K
:
(A.7)
During the system execution, the reaction force F
react gradually increases to match the
force command F
cmd, leaving the final target pose x
target
final = x
cmd.
c) Impedance Control: When the end-effector is subjected to an external disturbance force but
does not apply force to the environment, Eq. (2) simplify to:
x
target = x
cmd +
F
ext
K
;
(A.8)
where the end-effector, when subjected to external disturbances, adjusts its position to ex-
hibit compliance in response to the external force F
ext. Notably, we can also implement
force tracking and gravity compensation using Eq. (A.8) by dynamically adjusting the po-
sition command x
cmd following:
x
cmd =
F
ext
K
;
(A.9)
where F
ext can be the gravity term or an external force.
d) Hybrid Position and Force Control: As defined in [31], hybrid position and force control
refers to controlling the end-effector’s movement using x
cmd while applying a force com-
mand F
cmd = F
cmd
⊥
perpendicular to the tangential direction of the movement. In this
scenario, the system follows Eq. (A.6) along the tangential direction without force com-
mand and satisfies Eq. (A.7) in the perpendicular direction where the force command is
active.
Simplified impedance model.
In our formulation, the damping and inertia terms are omitted. This
simplification is suitable for relatively static or quasi-static tasks (e.g., wiping or tug-of-war), where
motion is slow and normal force ensures contact. In these cases, the static model is sufficient. For
dynamic or agile skills, higher control frequencies and explicit velocity/acceleration terms will be
necessary, which we plan to explore in future work.
Assumption of rigid contact.
Our formulation F = K(x−x
des) naturally handles both rigid and
compliant objects, as the end effector position depends only on the net force F and the desired goal
position x
des, regardless of the stiffness of the object. For rigid contacts, small displacements gener-
ate the required force, whereas for soft objects, larger deformations occur until the force equilibrium
is reached.
B
Hardware Settings and Teleoperation System
Robot System Setup
The humanoid robot system ( Fig. 2) is the 29-DOF Unitree G1 robot. The
quadruped robot system ( Fig. A.6a) consists of a 12-DOF Unitree B2 robot and a 6-DOF Unitree
Z1 robot arm, both powered by the battery of B2. We customize two RealSense cameras mounted on
13

Wireless controller
B2 robot
Z1 arm
Realsense  camera
(a) B2-Z1 robot hardware. A Unitree B2 robot with
a Z1 arm is teleoperated via a wireless controller,
with two RealSense cameras for visual input.
(b) Iphone teleoperation. Using the MuJoCo AR
app, an iPhone is employed to remotely control the
robot for performing manipulation tasks.
Figure A.6: Hardware setting and teleoperation system.
the arm and head of the quadruped robot. Our whole-body controller and diffusion policy inference
are executed on a dedicated desktop with an RTX 3090 GPU, interfaced with the B2-Z1 robot via
an internet connection.
Teleoperation System
As shown in Fig. A.6b, for manipulation tasks that require only position
control, we utilize the MuJoCo AR application, which allows flexible teleoperation of the robot
using an iPhone. However, as illustrated in
Fig. A.6a, this approach is no longer suitable for
manipulation tasks involving hybrid force and position control. To address this, we developed a
dedicated teleoperation system based on the B2 robot’s built-in wireless controller. In this system,
two joysticks are used to control the robot’s base movement, while eight buttons below are mapped
to control the end-effector’s position and the opening/closing of the gripper. Additionally, by holding
the “L1” button, the system switches from issuing position commands to force commands for the
end-effector. In practice, data collection with this setup was relatively slow, e.g., approximately 20
seconds per wiping trial and 10 seconds per cabinet trial, mainly due to the limited bandwidth of
teleoperation. We believe that exoskeleton-based teleoperation with force feedback will offer a more
natural and efficient way to collect demonstrations for forceful manipulation, and we plan to explore
this direction in future work.
C
Details on Policy Learning with Reinforcement Learning
We utilize Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) [50] to train the actor policy and implement the state
estimator with a multi-layer perception (MLP) network for state prediction outputs. We train our
RL policy in Isaac Gym [19] with 4096 parallel environments.
C.1
Input Commands and Disturbance Forces
We sample input commands and disturbance forces within the ranges below during training:
1. End-effector position command in spherical coordinates within the body frame x
cmd
ee
=
(r
cmd; 
cmd; 
cmd), where r
cmd
∈
[0:35; 0:85 m], 
cmd
∈
[−0:4; 0:4 rad], 
cmd
∈
[−0:6; 0:6 rad].
2. End-effector force command in cartesian coordinates within the body frame F
cmd
ee
∈R
3:
[−60N; 60N].
3. Base velocity command v
cmd
base
=
(v
cmd
x
; v
cmd
y
; !
cmd
z
), where v
x
∈
[−0:8; 0:8 m/s], v
y
∈
[−0:6; 0:6 m/s], !
z ∈[−0:8; 0:8 rad/s].
4. Base force command within the body frame F
cmd
base ∈R
3: [−60N; 60N].
14

Table A.1: Reward terms for learning the whole-body policy.
Term
Equation
Weight
end-effector Unified Position and Force Control
gripper position
exp{−|x
ee −(x
cmd + (F
ext + F
cmd −F
react)=B|=0:5}
2:0
Base Unified Position and Force Control (r b
v)
base velocity
exp{−|v
base −(v
cmd
base + F
base=D)|=0:25}
2:0
Safety and Smoothness
collision
penalty
1
collision
−5:0
joint limit
1
q>0.8∗qmax
||q<0.8∗qmin
−10:0
torques
|| 2
−5 × 10
−6
joint velocities
| _q|
2
−8 × 10
−4
joint
accelera-
tion
|q|
2
−2 × 10
−7
action rate
|a t−1 −a t|
−0:02
torque limit
1
τ>0.9∗|τ max
|
−0:05
Gait
contact number
P
foot 1
τcontact
>5. ∗stance
mask
2:0
reference
mo-
tion
|q −q
ref|2
1:0
Table A.2: Domain radomization for learning the whole-body policy.
Term
Unit
Range
Friction
-
[0:3; 2:0]
Body Mass
kg
[0:0; 15:0]
base com (x,y,z axis)
m
[−0:15; 0:15]
Motor Strength
%
[85; 15]
Gripper Payload
kg
[0:0; 0:5]
Push robot
m=s
[0:0; 0:8], interval = 8s
5. External net force from the environment at the end-effector F
ee ∈R
3: [−60N; 60N] and at robot
base F
base ∈R
3: [−60N; 60N].
C.2
Reward and Domain Radomization
Table A.1 provides a detailed overview of the reward structure employed in this study, and Table A.2
outlines the adopted domain randomization scheme.
C.3
World-Aligned End-Effector Position Estimation
Our estimator predicts not only the external force, but also the end-effector position and base linear
velocity. Although forward kinematics provides the end-effector position relative to the arm base,
it decouples arm control from base posture. In contrast, we estimate the end-effector position in a
world-aligned base frame (with fixed height and orientation relative to the base projection). This
representation allows, for example, a downward end-effector command to naturally induce robot
base leaning near workspace limits, enabling coordinated whole-body behavior without explicit base
15

control. As the end-effector position in this frame cannot be directly measured, we estimate it
instead.
C.4
Additional Analyses on Policy Learning
Figure A.7: Training reward curve (view with zoom-in).
Introducing external disturbances early makes training challenging, as initial policies struggle with
body balance and end-effector stability. To address this, we used a two-stage curriculum: first, train-
ing whole-body reaching and locomotion, then adding random force commands and disturbances.
The training reward curve (Fig. A.7) shows an initial drop in stage two, with locomotion recover-
ing and whole-body reaching stabilizing, despite a slight reaching reward decrease due to increased
sampling diversity of force commands and disturbances.
C.5
Impact of Motor Gains
Compared to pure position-based whole-body control, we use smaller Kp/Kd gains. We observed
that lower gains, which allow greater overshoot, improve force estimation. However, excessively
low values degrade position tracking accuracy.
C.6
Sim-to-real Gap and Force Estimation Robustness
Our force estimator experiences sim2real gaps due to mismatches in motor dynamics and con-
tact modeling. While domain randomization (e.g., varying Kp/Kd gains) helps reduce these gaps,
sim2real transfer remains challenging for RL-based policies. Inspired by how humans rely more on
tactile feedback than precise force sensing in contact-rich tasks, our IL policy combines estimated
forces with visual input to achieve robust performance without requiring high force accuracy. To
further reduce the sim2real gap, we plan to fine-tune the estimator with real-world data and apply
system identification methods.
D
Details on Force-aware Imitation Learning Policy
Table A.3: Imitation learning results (50 trials per task)
Task
wipe-blackboard
open-cabinet
close-cabinet
open-drawer-occlusion
w/o Force
0.22
0.36
0.30
0.30
w/ Force
0.58
0.70
0.72
0.76
Task Settings
We select four tasks that require a combination of hybrid force and position control
and force sensing capabilities in the real world.
• For the wipe-blackboard task, the robot must press against the blackboard while moving later-
ally to effectively remove ink marks. If the robot loses contact or fails to apply sufficient force
during movement, the ink will not be wiped away. A purely position-controlled approach strug-
gles with maintaining consistent contact force, often resulting in intermittent contact or excessive
16

Base Camera View
Figure A.8: Open drawer with occlusion, the gripper becomes occluded during manipulation.
force application. In contrast, our force estimator enables the robot to sustain stable contact pres-
sure, ensuring effective wiping while minimizing the risk of excessive force that could damage
the robot.
• For the two tasks of open- and close-cabinet with a push-to-open cabinet, the robot must
apply sufficient force to press the door, triggering the built-in mechanism that causes it to spring
open or close. Unlike the previous task, this scenario requires the robot to exert enough force to
overcome the mechanism’s resistance, despite the minimal displacement during activation.
• For the task of open-drawer-occlusion with a rebound mechanism, the robot must apply suf-
ficient force to press on the drawer front under visual occlusion, triggering the built-in mechanism
that makes the drawer spring open, as shown in Fig. A.8.
Evaluation
We provide the quantitative comparison between our method and the baseline in Ta-
ble A.3. And specifically:
• For the task of wipe-blackboard, success is defined as the robot erasing 90% of the ink marks.
Failure occurs if the robot exceeds the time limit without achieving this goal.
• For the two tasks of open- and close-cabinet with a rebound mechanism, success is defined
as the robot pressing the cabinet door to open (or close) the cabinet and then releasing the surface.
Failure occurs if the robot is unable to activate the mechanism or does not release the cabinet door
after pressing it.
• For the task of open-drawer-occlusion with a rebound mechanism, success is defined as the
robot pressing the drawer front under visual occlusion and then releasing the surface. Failure
occurs if the robot is unable to activate the mechanism or does not release the drawer front after
pressing it.
40
30
20
10
0
10
20
30
40
Force Command [N]
60
40
20
0
20
40
60
Y Force [N]
Y Force Visualization
force measured
force estimate
force command
40
30
20
10
0
10
20
30
40
Force Command [N]
40
20
0
20
40
Z Force [N]
Z Force Visualization
force measured
force estimate
force command
Figure A.9: Real-world force control evaluation.
E
Assessing Force Estimation Accuracy Along X and Y Axes
We evaluate the force estimator by randomly selecting five positions and applying forces ranging
from -60N to 60N along the X-axis (as in Fig. 4 of the main paper). We additionally evaluate on the
Y- and Z-axis within 40N (due to hardware constraints of Unitree-Z1) in Fig. A.9. While sim-to-real
17

discrepancies introduce inaccurate estimations, especially along Y-axis, we argue that the current
estimator suffices for the coarse-grained manipulation tasks discussed in this study. Reducing this
sim-to-real gap for finer control will be one focus Additional of our future work.
18
