Learning Universal Policies via Text-Guided
Video Generation
Yilun Du∗†‡, Mengjiao Yang *‡§, Bo Dai ‡¶, Hanjun Dai ‡, Ofir Nachum ‡,
Joshua B. Tenenbaum †, Dale Schuurmans ‡||, Pieter Abbeel §
MIT†
Google DeepMind‡
UC Berkeley§
Georgia Tech¶
University of Alberta||
https://universal-policy.github.io/
Abstract
A goal of artificial intelligence is to construct an agent that can solve a wide variety
of tasks. Recent progress in text-guided image synthesis has yielded models with
an impressive ability to generate complex novel images, exhibiting combinatorial
generalization across domains. Motivated by this success, we investigate whether
such tools can be used to construct more general-purpose agents. Specifically, we
cast the sequential decision making problem as a text-conditioned video generation
problem, where, given a text-encoded specification of a desired goal, a planner
synthesizes a set of future frames depicting its planned actions in the future, after
which control actions are extracted from the generated video. By leveraging text
as the underlying goal specification, we are able to naturally and combinatorially
generalize to novel goals. The proposed policy-as-video formulation can further
represent environments with different state and action spaces in a unified space of
images, which, for example, enables learning and generalization across a variety of
robot manipulation tasks. Finally, by leveraging pretrained language embeddings
and widely available videos from the internet, the approach enables knowledge
transfer through predicting highly realistic video plans for real robots2.
1
Introduction
Building models that solve a diverse set of tasks has become a dominant paradigm in the domains
of vision and language. In natural language processing, large pretrained models have demonstrated
remarkable zero-shot learning of new language tasks [1, 2, 3]. Similarly, in computer vision, models
such as those proposed in [4, 5] have shown remarkable zero-shot classification and object recognition
capabilities. A natural next step is to use such tools to construct agents that can complete different
decision making tasks across many environments.
However, training such agents faces the inherent challenge of environmental diversity, since different
environments operate with distinct state action spaces (e.g., the joint space and continuous controls
in MuJoCo are fundamentally different from the image space and discrete actions in Atari). Such
diversity hampers knowledge sharing, learning, and generalization across tasks and environments.
Although substantial effort has been devoted to encoding different environments with universal tokens
in a sequence modeling framework [6], it is unclear whether such an approach can preserve the
rich knowledge embedded in pretrained vision and language models and leverage this knowledge to
transfer to downstream reinforcement learning (RL) tasks. Furthermore, it is difficult to construct
reward functions that specify different tasks across environments.
In this work, we address the challenges in environment diversity and reward specification by lever-
aging video (i.e., image sequences) as a universal interface for conveying action and observation
∗denotes equal contribution. Correspondence to yilundu@mit.edu and sherryy@berkeley.edu.
2See video visualizations at https://universal-policy.github.io.
37th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2023).
arXiv:2302.00111v3  [cs.AI]  20 Nov 2023

Cut A Pineapple in 
A Few Steps
Move A Red Block 
to A Brown Box
Wipe Plate with  
Yellow Sponge
Wipe A Brown Box 
Before Pick up A Red 
Block. Then Put Red 
Block on Brown Box
Text-Conditioned Video Generation
Combinatorial Language
Long-Horizon Planning
Multi-Task Generalization
Internet-Scale Knowledge Transfer
Wipe the 
Counter with 
Robot Arm and 
Red Cloth
Figure 1: Text-Conditional Video Generation as Universal Policies. Text-conditional video generations
enables us to train general purpose policies on wide sources of data (simulated, real robots and YouTube)
which may be applied to downstream multi-task settings requiring combinatorical language generalization,
long-horizon planning, or internet-scale knowledge.
behavior in different environments, and text as a universal interface for expressing task descriptions.
In particular, we design a video generator as a planner that sequentially conditions on a current
image frame and a text passage describing a current goal (i.e., the next high-level step) to generate
a trajectory in the form of an image sequence, after which an inverse dynamics model is used to
extract the underlying actions from the generated video. Such an approach allows the universal
nature of language and video to be leveraged in generalizing to novel goals and tasks across diverse
environments. Specifically, we instantiate the text-conditioned video generation model using video
diffusion. A set of underlying actions are then regressed from the synthesized frames and used to
construct a policy to implement the planned trajectory. Since the language description of a task is
often highly correlated with control actions, text-conditioned video generation naturally focuses
generation on action relevant parts of the video. The proposed model, UniPi, is visualized in Figure 1.
We have found that formulating policy generation via text-conditioned video synthesis yields the
following advantages:
Combinatorial Generalization.
The rich combinatorial nature of language can be leveraged to
synthesize novel combinatorial behaviors in the environment. This enables the proposed approach to
rearrange objects to new unseen combinations of geometric relations, as shown in Section 4.1.
Multi-task Learning.
Formulating action prediction as a video prediction problem readily enables
learning across many different tasks. We illustrate in Section 4.2 how this enables learning across
language-conditioned tasks and generalizing to new ones at test time without finetuning.
Action Planning.
The video generation procedure corresponds to a planning procedure where
a sequence of frames representing actions is generated to reach the target goal. Such a planning
procedure is naturally hierarchical: a temporally sparse sequence of images toward a goal can first
be generated, before being refined with a more specific plan. Moreover, the planning procedure
is steerable, in the sense that the plan generation can be biased by new constraints introduced at
test-time through test-time sampling. Finally, plans are produced in a video space that is naturally
interpretable by humans, making action verification and plan diagnosis easy. We illustrate the efficacy
of hierarchical sampling in Table 2 and steerability in Figure 7.
Internet-Scale Knowledge Transfer.
By pretraining a video generation model on a large-scale
text-video dataset recovered from the internet, one can recover a vast repository of “demonstrations”
that aid the construction of a text-conditioned policy in novel environments. We illustrate how this
enables the realistic synthesis of robot motion videos from language instructions in Section 4.3.
The main contribution of this work is to formulate text-conditioned video generation as a universal
planning strategy from which diverse behaviors can be synthesized. While such an approach departs
from typical policy generation in RL, where subsequent actions to execute are directly predicted from
a current state, we illustrate that UniPi exhibits notable generalization advantages over traditional
policy generation methods across a variety of domains.
2
Problem Formulation
We first motivate a new abstraction, the Unified Predictive Decision Process (UPDP), as an alternative
to the Markov Decision Process (MDP) commonly used in RL, and then show an instantiation of a
UPDP with diffusion models.
2

2.1
Markov Decision Process
The Markov Decision Process [7] is a broad abstraction used to formulate many sequential decision
making problems. Many RL algorithms have been derived from MDPs with empirical success [8,
9, 10], but existing algorithms are typically unable to combinatorially generalize across different
environments. Such difficulty can be traced back to certain aspects of the underlying MDP abstraction:
i) The lack of a universal state interface across different control environments. In fact, since
different environments typically have separate underlying state spaces, one would need to a
construct a complex state representation to represent all environments, making learning difficult.
ii) The explicit requirement of a real-valued reward function in an MDP. The RL problem is
usually defined as maximizing the accumulated reward in an MDP. However, in many practical
applications, how to design and transfer rewards is unclear and different across environments.
iii) The dynamics model in an MDP is environment and agent dependent. Specifically, the dynamics
model T(s′|s, a) that characterizes the transition between states (s, s′) under action a is explicitly
dependent to the environment and action space of the agent, which can be significantly different
between different agents and tasks.
2.2
Unified Predictive Decision Process
These difficulties inspire us to construct an alternative abstraction for unified sequential decision
making across diverse environments. Our abstraction, termed Unified Predictive Decision Pro-
cess (UPDP), exploits images as a universal interface across environments, texts as task specifiers to
avoid reward design, and a task-agnostic planning module separated from environment-dependent
control to enable knowledge sharing and generalization.
Formally, we define a UPDP to be a tuple G = ⟨X, C, H, ρ⟩, where X denotes the observation space
of images, C denotes the space of textual task descriptions, H ∈N is a finite horizon length, and
ρ(·|x0, c) : X × C →∆(X H) is a conditional video generator. That is, ρ(·|xo, c) ∈∆(X H) is a
conditional distribution over H-step image sequences determined by the first frame x0 and the task
description c. Intuitively, ρ synthesizes H-step image trajectories that illustrate possible paths for
completing a target task c. For simplicity, we focus on finite horizon, episodic tasks.
Given a UPDP G, we define a trajectory-task conditioned policy π(·|{xh}H
h=0, c) : X H+1 × C →
∆(AH) to be a conditional distribution over H-step action sequences AH. Ideally, π(·|{xh}H
h=0, c)
specifies a conditional distribution of action sequences that achieves the given trajectory {xh}H
h=0
in the UPDP G for the given task c. To achieve such an alignment, we will consider an offline RL
scenario where we have access to a dataset of existing experience D = {(xi, ai)H−1
i=0 , xH, c}n
j=1
from which both ρ(·|x0, c) and π(·|{xh}H
h=0, c) can be estimated.
In contrast to an MDP, a UPDP directly models video-based trajectories and bypasses the need to
specify a reward function beyond the textual task description. Since the space of video observations
X H and task descriptions C are both naturally shared across environments and easily interpretable
by humans, any video-based planner ρ(·|x0, c) can be conveniently reused, transferred and debugged.
Another benefit of a UPDP over an MDP is that UPDP isolates the video-based planning with ρ(·|x0, c)
from the deferred action selection using π(·|{xh}H
h=0, c). This design choice isolates planning de-
cisions from action-specific mechanisms, allowing the planner to be environment and agent agnostic.
UPDP can be understood as implicitly planning over an MDP and directly outputting an optimal
trajectory based on the given instructions. Such a UPDP abstraction bypasses reward design, state
extraction and explicit planning, and allows for non-Markovian modeling of an image-based state
space. However, learning a planner in UPDP requires videos and task descriptions, whereas traditional
MDPs do not require such data, so whether an MDP or UPDP is more suitable for a given task
depends on what types of training data are available. Although the non-Markovian model and the
requirement of video and text data induce additional difficulties in UPDP comparing to MDP, it is
possible to leverage existing large text-video models that have been pretrained on massive, web-scale
datasets to alleviate these complexities.
2.3
Diffusion Models for UPDP
Let τ = [x1, . . . , xH] ∈X H denote a sequence of images. We leverage the significant recent
advances in diffusion models for capturing the conditional distribution ρ(τ|x0, c), which we will
3

leverage as a text and initial-frame conditioned video generator in a UPDP. We emphasize that the
UPDP formulation is also compatible with other probabilistic models, such as a variational autoen-
coder [11], energy-based model [12, 13], or generative adversarial network [14]. For completeness
we briefly cover the core formulation at a high-level, but defer details to background references [15].
We start with an unconditional model. A continuous-time diffusion model defines a forward process
qk(τk|τ) = N(·; αkτ, σ2
kI), where k ∈[0, 1] and αk, σ2
k are scalars with predefined schedules.
A generative process p(τ) is also defined, which reverses the forward process by learning a de-
noising model s(τk, k). Correspondingly τ can be generated by simulating this reverse process
with an ancestral sampler [16] or numerical integration [17]. In our case, the unconditional model
needs to be further adapted to condition on both the text instruction c and the initial image x0.
Denote the conditional denoiser as s(τk, k|c, x0). We leverage classifier-free guidance [18] and use
ˆs(τk, k|c, x0) = (1+ω)s(τk, k|c, x0)−ωs(τk, k) as the denoiser in the reverse process for sampling,
where ω controls the strength of the text and first-frame conditioning.
3
Decision Making with Videos
Video Diffusion
Tiling
Temporal Super 
Resolution
Inverse Dynamics
Robot Actions
Move Joint = [Δx, Δy]
Rotate = Δw …
Rotate
Universal Policy (UniPi)
Inverse Dynamics
Text
Figure 2: Given an input observation and text instruction, we
plan a set of images representing agent behavior. Images are
converted to actions using an inverse dynamics model.
Next we describe the proposed approach
UniPi in detail, which is a concrete instan-
tiation of the diffusion UPDP. UniPi in-
corporates the two main components dis-
cussed in Section 2, as shown in Figure 2:
(i) a diffusion model for the universal video-
based planner ρ(·|x0, c), which synthesizes
videos conditioned on the first frame and
task descriptions; and (ii) a task-specific
action generator π(·|{xh}H
h=0, c), which
infers actions sequences from generated
videos through inverse dynamics modeling.
3.1
Universal Video-Based Planner
Encouraged by the recent success of text-
to-video models [19], we seek to construct
a video diffusion module as the trajectory
planner, which can faithfully synthesize future image frames given an initial frame and textual task
description. However, the desired planner departs from the typical setting in text-to-video models
[20, 19] which normally generate unconstrained videos given a text description. Planning through
video generation is more challenging as it requires models to both be able to generate constrained
videos that start at a specified image, and then complete the target task. Moreover, to ensure valid
action inference across synthesized frames in a video, the video prediction module needs to be able
to track the underlying environment state across synthesized video frames.
Conditional Video Synthesis.
To generate a valid and executable plan, a text-to-video model must
synthesize a constrained video plan starting at an initial image that depicts the initial configuration of
the agent and environment. One approach to solve this problem is to modify the underlying test-time
sampling procedure of an unconditional model, by fixing the first frame of the generated video plan to
always begin at the observed image, as done in [21]. However, we found that this performed poorly
and led to subsequent frames in the video plan to deviate significantly from the original observed
image. Instead, we found it more effective to explicitly train a constrained video synthesis model by
providing the first frame of each video as explicit conditioning context during training.
Trajectory Consistency through Tiling.
Existing text-to-video models typically generate videos
where the underlying environment state changes significantly during the temporal duration [19].
To construct an accurate trajectory planner, it is important that the environment remain consistent
across all time points. To enforce environment consistency in conditional video synthesis, we
provide, as additional context, the observed image when denoising each frame in the synthesized
video. In particular, we re-purpose a temporal super-resolution video diffusion architecture, and
provide as context the conditioned visual observation tiled across time, as the opposed to a low
temporal-resolution video for denoising at each timestep. In this model, we directly concatenate each
4

intermediate noisy frame with the conditioned observed image across sampling steps, which serves
as a strong signal to maintain the underlying environment state across time.
Hierarchical Planning.
When constructing plans in high dimensional environments with long time
horizons, directly generating a set of actions to reach a goal state quickly becomes intractable due to
the exponential blow-up of the underlying search space. Planning methods often circumvent this issue
by leveraging a natural hierarchy in planning. Specifically, planning methods first construct coarse
plans operating on low dimensional states and actions, which may then be refined into plans in the
underlying state and action spaces. Similar to planning, our conditional video generation procedure
likewise exhibits a natural temporal hierarchy. We first generate videos at a coarse level by sparsely
sampled videos (“abstractions”) of the desired behavior along the time axis. Then we refine the videos
to represent valid behavior in the environment by super-resolving videos across time. Meanwhile,
coarse-to-fine super-resolution further improves consistency via interpolation between frames.
Flexible Behavioral Modulation.
When planning a sequence of actions to a given sub-goal,
one can readily incorporate external constraints to modulate the generated plan. Such test-time
adaptability can be implemented by composing a prior h(τ) during plan generation to specify desired
constraints across the synthesized action trajectory [21], which is also compatible with UniPi. In
particular, the prior h(τ) can be specified using a learned classifier on images to optimize a particular
task, or as a Dirac delta on a particular image to guide a plan towards a particular set of states. To train
the text-conditioned video generation model, we utilize the video diffusion algorithm in [19], where
pretrained language features from T5 [22] are encoded. Please see Appendix A for the underlying
architecture and training details.
3.2
Task Specific Action Adaptation
Given a set of synthesized videos, we may train a small task-specific inverse-dynamics model to
translate frames into a set of actions as described below.
Inverse Dynamics.
We train a small model to estimate actions given input images. The training of
the inverse dynamics is independent from the planner and can be done on a separate, smaller and
potentially suboptimal dataset generated by a simulator.
Action Execution.
Finally, we generate an action sequence given x0 and c by synthesizing
H image frames and applying the learned inverse-dynamics model to predict the corresponding
H actions. Inferred actions can then be executed via closed-loop control, where we generate H
new actions after each step of action execution (i.e., model predictive control), or via open-loop
control, where we sequentially execute each action from the intially inferred action sequence. For
computational efficiency, we use an open-loop controller in all our experiments in this paper.
4
Experimental Evaluation
The focus of these experiments is to evaluate UniPi in terms of its ability to enable effective,
generalizable decision making. In particular, we evaluate
(1) the ability to combinatorially generalize across different subgoals in Section 4.1,
(2) the ability to effectively learn and generalize across many tasks in Section 4.2,
(3) the ability to leverage existing videos on the internet to generalize to complex tasks in Section 4.3.
See experimental details in Appendix A. Additional results are given in Appendix B and videos in
the supplement.
4.1
Combinatorial Policy Synthesis
First, we measure the ability of UniPi to combinatorially generalize to different language tasks.
Setup.
To measure combinatorial generalization, we use the combinatorial robot planning tasks in
[23]. In this task, a robot must manipulate blocks in an environment to satisfy language instructions,
i.e., put a red block right of a cyan block. To accomplish this task, the robot must first pick up
a white block, place it in the appropriate bowl to paint it a particular color, and then pick up and
place the block in a plate so that it satisfies the specified relation. In contrast to [23] which uses
5

Seen
Novel
Model
Place
Relation
Place
Relation
State + Transformer BC [24]
19.4 ± 3.7
8.2 ± 2.0
11.9 ± 4.9
3.7 ± 2.1
Image + Transformer BC [24]
9.4 ± 2.2
11.9 ± 1.8
9.7 ± 4.5
7.3 ± 2.6
Image + TT [25]
17.4 ± 2.9
12.8 ± 1.8
13.2 ± 4.1
9.1 ± 2.5
Diffuser [21]
9.0 ± 1.2
11.2 ± 1.0
12.5 ± 2.4
9.6 ± 1.7
UniPi (Ours)
59.1 ± 2.5
53.2 ± 2.0
60.1 ± 3.9
46.1 ± 3.0
Table 1: Task Completion Accuracy in Combinatorial Environments. UniPi generalizes to seen and novel
combinations of language prompts in Place (e.g., place X in Y) and Relation (e.g., place X to the left of Y) tasks.
Put A Yellow Block 
in the Brown Box
Put An Orange Block 
Left of A Red Block
Put A Red Block on 
A Purple Block
Input Frame
Synthesized Frames
Figure 3: Combinatorial Video Generation. Generated videos for unseen language goals at test time.
pre-programmed pick and place primitives for action prediction, we predict actions in the continuous
robotic joint space for both the baselines and our approach.
We split the language instructions in this environment into two sets: one set of instructions (70%) that
is seen during training, and another set (30%) that is only seen during testing. The precise locations
of individual blocks, bowls, and plates in the environment are fully randomized in each environment
iteration. We train the video model on 200k example videos of generated language instructions in the
train set. Details of this environment can be found in Appendix A. We constructed demonstrations of
videos in this task by using a scripted agent.
Synthesized Frames
Put the Right 
Cyan Block 
on An Orange 
Block
Executed Action Frames
Figure 4: Action Execution. Synthesized video plans
and executed actions in the simulated environment. The
two video plans roughly align with each other.
Baselines.
We compare the proposed ap-
proach with three separate representative ap-
proaches. First, we compare to existing work
that uses goal-conditioned transformers to learn
across multiple environments, where goals can
be specified as episode returns [26], expert
demonstrations [6], or text and images [24]. To
represent these baselines, we construct a trans-
former behavior cloning (BC) agent to predict
the subsequent action to execute given the task
description and either the visual observation (Im-
age + Transformer BC) or the underlying robot
joint state (State + Transformer BC). Second,
given that our approach regresses a sequence of actions to execute, we further compare with trans-
former models that regress a sequence of future actions to execute, similar to the goal-conditioned
behavioral cloning of the Trajectory Transformer [25] (Image + TT). Finally, to highlight the im-
portance of the video-as-policy approach, we compare UniPi with learning a diffusion process that,
conditioned on an image observation, directly infers future robot actions in the joint space (as opposed
to diffusing future image frames), corresponding to [21, 27]. For both our method and each baseline,
we condition the policy on encoded language instructions using pretrained T5 embeddings. Note that
in this setting, existing offline reinforcement learning baselines are not directly applicable as we do
not have access to the reward functions in the environment.
Metrics.
To compare UniPi with baselines, we measure final task completion accuracy across new
instances of the environment and associated language prompts. We subdivide the evaluation along
two axes: (1) whether the language instruction has been seen during training and (2) whether the
6

Put the Red Blocks in 
A Gray Bowl
Pack All the Porcelain 
Salad Plate Objects in 
the Brown Box
Pack All the Green 
and Blue Blocks into 
the Brown Box
Input Frame
Synthesized Frames
Figure 5: Multitask Video Generation. Generated video plans on new test tasks in the multitask setting. UniPi
is able to synthesize plan across a set of environments.
Frame
Frame
Temporal
Condition
Consistency
Heirarchy
Place
Relation
No
No
No
13.2 ± 3.2
12.4 ± 2.4
Yes
No
No
52.4 ± 2.9
34.7 ± 2.6
Yes
Yes
No
53.2 ± 3.0
39.4 ± 2.8
Yes
Yes
Yes
59.1 ± 2.5
53.2 ± 2.0
Table 2: Task Completion Accuracy Ablations. Each component of UniPi improves its performance. Perfor-
mance reported on the seen place and relation tasks.
language instruction specifies placing a block in relation to some other block as opposed to direct
pick-and-place.
Combinatorial Generalization.
In Table 1, we find that UniPi generalizes well to both seen and
novel combinations of language prompts . We illustrate our action generation pipeline in Figure 4
and different generated video plans using our approach in Figure 3.
Put the Right 
Cyan Block 
on An Orange 
Block
Synthesized Frames
Put the Left 
Cyan Block 
on An Orange 
Block
Input Frame
Intermediate 
Guidance
Figure 7: Adaptable Planning. By guiding test-time
sampling towards a an intermediate image, we can adapt
our planning procedure to move a particular block.
Ablations.
In Table 2, we ablate UniPi on seen
language instructions and in-relation-to tasks.
Specifically, we study the effect of conditioning
the video generative model on the first observa-
tion frame (frame condition), tiling the observed
frame across timesteps (frame consistency) and
super-resolving video generation across time
(temporal hierarchy). In settings where frame
consistency is not enforced, we provide a zeroed
out image as context to the non-start frames in
a video. We found that all components of UniPi
are crucial for good performance. We found that frame conditioning and consistency enabled videos
to be consistent with the observed image and temporal hierarchy enabled more detailed video plans.
Adaptability.
We next assess the ability of UniPi to adapt at test time to new constraints. In
Figure 7, we illustrate the ability to construct plans which color and move one particular block to a
specified geometric relation.
4.2
Multi-Environment Transfer
We next evaluate the ability of UniPi to effectively learn across a set of different tasks and generalize,
at test time, to a new set of unseen environments.
Setup.
To measure multi-task learning and transfer, we use the suite of language guided manipula-
tion tasks from [28]. We train our method using demonstrations across a set of 10 separate tasks from
[28], and evaluate the ability of our approach to transfer to 3 different test tasks. Using a scripted
oracle agent, we generate a set of 200k videos of language execution in the environment. We report
the underlying accuracy in which each language instruction is completed. Details of this environment
can be found in Appendix A.
7

Input Frame
Synthesized Frames
Flip Pot 
Upright in Sink
Turn Faucet
Left
Pick Up Sponge 
and Wipe Plate
Put Big Spoon from
Basket to Tray
Figure 6: High Fidelity Plan Generation. UniPi can generate high resolution video plans across different
language prompts.
Place
Pack
Pack
Model
Bowl
Object
Pair
State + Transformer BC
9.8 ± 2.6
21.7 ± 3.5
1.3 ± 0.9
Image + Transformer BC
5.3 ± 1.9
5.7 ± 2.1
7.8 ± 2.6
Image + TT
4.9 ± 2.1
19.8 ± 0.4
2.3 ± 1.6
Diffuser
14.8 ± 2.9
15.9 ± 2.7
10.5 ± 2.4
UniPi (Ours)
51.6 ± 3.6
75.5 ± 3.1
45.7 ± 3.7
Table 3: Task Completion Accuracy on Multitask Environment. UniPi generalizes well to new environments
when trained on a set of different multi-task environments.
Baselines.
We use the same baseline methods as in Section 4.1. While our environment setting is
similar to that of [28], this method is not directly comparable to our approach, as CLIPort abstracts
actions to the existing primitives of pick and place as opposed to using the joint space of a robot.
CLIPort is also designed to solve the significantly simpler problem of inferring only the poses upon
which to pick and place objects (with no easy manner to adapt to our setting).
Multitask Generalization.
In Table 3 we present results of UniPi and baselines across new
tasks. The UniPi approach is able to generalize and synthesize new videos and decisions of different
language tasks, and can generate videos consisting of picking different kinds of objects and different
colored objects. We further present video visualizations of our approach in Figure 5.
4.3
Real World Transfer
Finally we evaluate the extent to which UniPi can generalize to real world scenarios and construct
complex behaviors by leveraging widely available videos on the internet.
Setup.
Our training data consists of an internet-scale pretraining dataset and a smaller real-world
robotic dataset. The pretraining dataset uses the same data as [19], which consists of 14 million
video-text pairs, 60 million image-text pairs, and the publicly available LAION-400M image-text
dataset. The robotic dataset is adopted from the Bridge dataset [29] with 7.2k video-text pairs, where
we use the task IDs as texts. We partition the 7.2k video-text pairs into train (80%) and test (20%)
splits. We pretrain UniPi on the pretraining dataset followed by finetuning on the train split of the
Bridge data. Architectural details can be found in Appendix A.
Video Synthesis.
We are particularly interested in the effect of pretraining on internet-scale
video data that is not specific to robotics. We report the CLIP scores, FIDs, and FVDs (averaged
across frames and computed on 32 samples) of UniPi trained on Bridge data, with and without
pretraining. As shown in Table 4, UniPi with pretraining achieves significantly higher FID and FVD
and a marginally better CLIP score than UniPi without pretraining, suggesting that pretraining on
non-robot data helps with generating plans for robots. Interestingly, UniPi without pretraining often
synthesizes plans that fail to complete the task (Figure 6), which is not well reflected in the CLIP
8

Synthesized Frames
Pick Up 
Yellow Corn
(Scratch)
Pick Up 
Yellow Corn
(Pretrained)
Put Carrot 
On Burner 
(Scratch)
Put Carrot 
On Burner 
(Pretrained)
Figure 8: Pretraining Enables Combinatorial Generaliza-
tion. Internet pretraining enables UniPi to synthesize videos
of tasks not seen in training. In contrast, a model trained
from scratch incorrectly generates plans of different tasks.
Input Frame
Synthesized Frame
Figure 9: Robustness to Background Change.
UniPi learns to be robust to changes of underlying
background, such as black cropping or the addition
of photo-shopped objects.
Model (24x40)
CLIP Score ↑
FID ↓
FVD ↓
Success ↑
No Pretrain
24.43 ± 0.04
17.75 ± 0.56
288.02 ± 10.45
72.6%
Pretrain
24.54 ± 0.03
14.54 ± 0.57
264.66 ± 13.64
77.1%
Table 4: Video Generation Quality of UniPi on Real Environment. The use of existing data on the internet
improves video plan predictions under all metrics considered.
score, suggesting the need for better generation metrics for control-specific tasks. To tackle the lack
of such a metric, we develop a surrogate metric for evaluating task success from the generated videos.
Specifically, we train a success classifier that takes in the last frame of a generated video and predicts
whether the task is successful or not. We find that training a model from scratch achieves 72.6%
success while finetuning from a pretrained model improves performance to 77.1%. In both settings,
generated videos are able to successfully complete most tasks.
Generalization.
We find that internet-scale pretraining enables UniPi to generalize to novel task
commands and scenes in the test split not seen during training, whereas UniPi trained only on task-
specific robot data fails to generalize. Specifically, Figure 8 shows the results of novel task commands
that do not exist in the Bridge dataset. Additionally, UniPi is relatively robust to background changes
such as black cropping or the addition of photo-shopped objects as shown in Figure 9.
5
Related Work
Learning Generative Models of the World.
Models trained to generate environment rewards and
dynamics that can serve as “world models” for model-based reinforcement learning and planning have
been recently scaled to large-scale architectures developed for vision and language [9, 25, 30, 31].
These works separate learning the world model from planning and policy learning, and arguably
present a mismatch between the generative modeling objective of the world and learning optimal
policies. Additionally, learning a world model requires the training data to be in a strict state-action-
reward format, which is incompatible with the largely available datasets on the internet, such as
YouTube videos. While methods such as VPT [32] can utilize internet-scale data through learning an
inverse dynamics model to label unlabled videos, an inverse dynamics model itself does not support
model-based planning or reinforcement learning to further improve learned policies beyond imitation
learning. Our text-conditioned video policies can be seen as jointly learning the world model and
conducting hierarchical planning simultaneously, and is able to leverage widely available datasets
that are not specifically designed for sequential decision making.
Diffusion Models for Decision Making.
Diffusion models have recently been applied to different
decision making problems [21, 27, 33, 34, 35, 36]. Most similar to this work, [21] trained an
unconditional diffusion model to generate trajectories consisting of joint-based states and actions,
and used a separately trained reward model to select generated plans. On the other hand, [27]
trained a conditional diffusion model to guide behavior synthesis from desired rewards, constraints
or agent skills. Unlike both works, which learn task-specific policies from scratch, our approach of
text-condition video generation as a universal policy can leverage internet-scale knowledge to learn
generalist agents that can be deployed to a variety of novel tasks and environments. Additionally, [37]
9

applied web-scale text-conditioned image diffusion to generate a goal image to condition a policy on,
whereas our work uses video diffusion to learning universal policies directly.
Learning Generalist Agents.
Inspired by the success of large-scale pretraining in vision and
language domains, large-scale sequence and image models have recently been applied to learning
generalist decision making agents [6, 26, 38]. However, these generalist agents can only operate
under environments with the same state and action spaces (e.g., Atari games) [26, 38], or require
studious tokenization [6] that might seem unnatural in scenarios where different environments have
distinct state and actions spaces. Another downside of using customized tokens for control is the
inability to directly utilize knowledge from pretrained vision and language models. Our approach, on
the other hand, uses text and images as universal interfaces for policy learning so that the knowledge
from pretrained vision and language models can be preserved. The choice of diffusion as opposed to
autoregressive sequence modeling also enables long-term and hierarchical planning.
Learning Text-Conditioned Policies.
There has been a growing amount of work using text
commands as a way to learn multi-task and generalist control policies [39, 40, 24, 41, 42, 43].
Different from our framing of video-as-policies, existing work directly trains a language-conditioned
control policy in the action space of some specific robot, leaving cross-morphology multi-environment
learning of generalist agents as an unsolved problem. We believe this paper is the first to propose
images as a universal state and action space to enable broad knowledge transfer across environments,
tasks, and even between humans and robots.
6
Conclusion
We have demonstrated the utility of representing policies using text-conditioned video generation,
showing that this enables effective combinatorial generalization, multi-task learning, and real world
transfer. These positive results point to the broader direction of using generative models and the
wealth of data on the internet as powerful tools to generate general-purpose decision making systems.
Limitations.
Our current approach has several limitations. First, the underlying video diffusion
process can be slow, it can take a minute to generate highly photorealistic videos. This slowness can
be overcome by distilling the diffusion process into a faster sampling network [44], which in our
initial experimentation resulted in a 16x speed-up. UniPi may further be sped up with by faster speed
samplers in diffusion models. Second, the environments considered in this work are generally fully
observed. In partially observable environments, video diffusion models might make hallucination of
objects or movements that are unfaithful or not in the physical world. Integrating video models with
semantic knowledge about the world may help resolve this issue, and the integration of UniPi with
LLMs would be an interesting direction of future work.
References
[1] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal,
Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. Language models are
few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:1877–1901, 2020. 1
[2] Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin, Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam
Roberts, Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton, Sebastian Gehrmann, et al. Palm:
Scaling language modeling with pathways. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.02311, 2022. 1
[3] Jordan Hoffmann, Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch, Elena Buchatskaya, Trevor Cai, Eliza
Rutherford, Diego de Las Casas, Lisa Anne Hendricks, Johannes Welbl, Aidan Clark, et al.
Training compute-optimal large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.15556, 2022. 1
[4] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal,
Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning transferable visual
models from natural language supervision. In International Conference on Machine Learning,
pages 8748–8763. PMLR, 2021. 1
[5] Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jeff Donahue, Pauline Luc, Antoine Miech, Iain Barr, Yana Hasson,
Karel Lenc, Arthur Mensch, Katie Millican, Malcolm Reynolds, et al. Flamingo: A visual
language model for few-shot learning. NeurIPS, 2022. 1
10

[6] Scott Reed, Konrad Zolna, Emilio Parisotto, Sergio Gomez Colmenarejo, Alexander Novikov,
Gabriel Barth-Maron, Mai Gimenez, Yury Sulsky, Jackie Kay, Jost Tobias Springenberg, et al.
A generalist agent. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.06175, 2022. 1, 6, 10, 14
[7] Martin L Puterman. Markov Decision Processes: Discrete Stochastic Dynamic Programming.
John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1994. 3
[8] Tuomas Haarnoja, Aurick Zhou, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine. Soft actor-critic: Off-
policy maximum entropy deep reinforcement learning with a stochastic actor. In International
conference on machine learning, pages 1861–1870. PMLR, 2018. 3
[9] Danijar Hafner, Timothy Lillicrap, Mohammad Norouzi, and Jimmy Ba. Mastering atari with
discrete world models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.02193, 2020. 3, 9
[10] Tianjun Zhang, Tongzheng Ren, Mengjiao Yang, Joseph Gonzalez, Dale Schuurmans, and
Bo Dai. Making linear mdps practical via contrastive representation learning. In International
Conference on Machine Learning, pages 26447–26466. PMLR, 2022. 3
[11] Diederik P. Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding variational bayes. CoRR, abs/1312.6114,
2013. 4
[12] Yilun Du and Igor Mordatch. Implicit generation and generalization in energy-based models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.08689, 2019. 4
[13] Bo Dai, Zhen Liu, Hanjun Dai, Niao He, Arthur Gretton, Le Song, and Dale Schuurmans.
Exponential family estimation via adversarial dynamics embedding. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 32, 2019. 4
[14] Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing Xu, David Warde-Farley, Sherjil
Ozair, Aaron Courville, and Yoshua Bengio. Generative adversarial nets. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems. 2014. 4
[15] Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Eric Weiss, Niru Maheswaranathan, and Surya Ganguli. Deep unsuper-
vised learning using nonequilibrium thermodynamics. In International Conference on Machine
Learning, 2015. 4
[16] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2020. 4
[17] Jiaming Song, Chenlin Meng, and Stefano Ermon. Denoising diffusion implicit models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2010.02502, 2020. 4
[18] Jonathan Ho and Tim Salimans.
Classifier-free diffusion guidance.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2207.12598, 2022. 4
[19] Jonathan Ho, William Chan, Chitwan Saharia, Jay Whang, Ruiqi Gao, Alexey Gritsenko,
Diederik P Kingma, Ben Poole, Mohammad Norouzi, David J Fleet, et al. Imagen video: High
definition video generation with diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02303, 2022. 4, 5,
8, 14
[20] Ruben Villegas, Mohammad Babaeizadeh, Pieter-Jan Kindermans, Hernan Moraldo, Han Zhang,
Mohammad Taghi Saffar, Santiago Castro, Julius Kunze, and Dumitru Erhan. Phenaki: Variable
length video generation from open domain textual description. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02399,
2022. 4
[21] Michael Janner, Yilun Du, Joshua Tenenbaum, and Sergey Levine. Planning with diffusion for
flexible behavior synthesis. In International Conference on Machine Learning, 2022. 4, 5, 6, 9,
14
[22] Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena,
Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, Peter J Liu, et al. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified
text-to-text transformer. J. Mach. Learn. Res., 21(140):1–67, 2020. 5, 14
[23] Jiayuan Mao, Tomas Lozano-Perez, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, and Leslie Pack Kaelbing. PDSketch:
Integrated Domain Programming, Learning, and Planning. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2022. 5
[24] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Joseph Dabis, Chelsea Finn,
Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Jasmine Hsu, et al. Rt-1: Robotics
transformer for real-world control at scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.06817, 2022. 6, 10
11

[25] Michael Janner, Qiyang Li, and Sergey Levine. Offline reinforcement learning as one big
sequence modeling problem. Advances in neural information processing systems, 34:1273–
1286, 2021. 6, 9, 14
[26] Kuang-Huei Lee, Ofir Nachum, Mengjiao Yang, Lisa Lee, Daniel Freeman, Winnie Xu, Ser-
gio Guadarrama, Ian Fischer, Eric Jang, Henryk Michalewski, et al. Multi-game decision
transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.15241, 2022. 6, 10, 14
[27] Anurag Ajay, Yilun Du, Abhi Gupta, Joshua Tenenbaum, Tommi Jaakkola, and Pulkit
Agrawal. Is conditional generative modeling all you need for decision-making? arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.15657, 2022. 6, 9
[28] Mohit Shridhar, Lucas Manuelli, and Dieter Fox. Cliport: What and where pathways for robotic
manipulation. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 894–906. PMLR, 2022. 7, 8
[29] Frederik Ebert, Yanlai Yang, Karl Schmeckpeper, Bernadette Bucher, Georgios Georgakis,
Kostas Daniilidis, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Bridge data: Boosting generalization of
robotic skills with cross-domain datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.13396, 2021. 8
[30] Michael R Zhang, Thomas Paine, Ofir Nachum, Cosmin Paduraru, George Tucker, ziyu wang,
and Mohammad Norouzi. Autoregressive dynamics models for offline policy evaluation and
optimization. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2021. 9
[31] Vincent Micheli, Eloi Alonso, and François Fleuret. Transformers are sample efficient world
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.00588, 2022. 9
[32] Bowen Baker, Ilge Akkaya, Peter Zhokhov, Joost Huizinga, Jie Tang, Adrien Ecoffet, Brandon
Houghton, Raul Sampedro, and Jeff Clune. Video pretraining (vpt): Learning to act by watching
unlabeled online videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.11795, 2022. 9
[33] Zhendong Wang, Jonathan J Hunt, and Mingyuan Zhou. Diffusion policies as an expressive
policy class for offline reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.06193, 2022. 9
[34] Edwin Zhang, Yujie Lu, William Wang, and Amy Zhang. Lad: Language augmented diffusion
for reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.15629, 2022. 9
[35] Julen Urain, Niklas Funk, Georgia Chalvatzaki, and Jan Peters. Se (3)-diffusionfields: Learning
cost functions for joint grasp and motion optimization through diffusion. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2209.03855, 2022. 9
[36] Ziyuan Zhong, Davis Rempe, Danfei Xu, Yuxiao Chen, Sushant Veer, Tong Che, Baishakhi
Ray, and Marco Pavone. Guided conditional diffusion for controllable traffic simulation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2210.17366, 2022. 9
[37] Ivan Kapelyukh, Vitalis Vosylius, and Edward Johns. Dall-e-bot: Introducing web-scale
diffusion models to robotics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02438, 2022. 9
[38] Aviral Kumar, Rishabh Agarwal, Xinyang Geng, George Tucker, and Sergey Levine. Offline q-
learning on diverse multi-task data both scales and generalizes. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.15144,
2022. 10
[39] Wenlong Huang, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Harris Chan, Jacky Liang, Pete Florence, Andy Zeng,
Jonathan Tompson, Igor Mordatch, Yevgen Chebotar, et al. Inner monologue: Embodied
reasoning through planning with language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.05608, 2022. 10
[40] Michael Ahn, Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Yevgen Chebotar, Omar Cortes, Byron David,
Chelsea Finn, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, et al. Do as i can, not
as i say: Grounding language in robotic affordances. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.01691, 2022.
10
[41] Corey Lynch and Pierre Sermanet. Language conditioned imitation learning over unstructured
data. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.07648, 2020. 10
[42] Parsa Mahmoudieh, Deepak Pathak, and Trevor Darrell. Zero-shot reward specification via
grounded natural language. In ICLR 2022 Workshop on Generalizable Policy Learning in
Physical World, 2022. 10
[43] Hao Liu, Lisa Lee, Kimin Lee, and Pieter Abbeel. Instruction-following agents with jointly
pre-trained vision-language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.13431, 2022. 10
[44] Tim Salimans and Jonathan Ho. Progressive distillation for fast sampling of diffusion models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.00512, 2022. 10
12

[45] Jonathan Ho, Tim Salimans, Alexey Gritsenko, William Chan, Mohammad Norouzi, and David J
Fleet. Video diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.03458, 2022. 14
[46] Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Saurabh Saxena, Lala Li, Jay Whang, Emily Denton, Seyed
Kamyar Seyed Ghasemipour, Burcu Karagol Ayan, S Sara Mahdavi, Rapha Gontijo Lopes, et al.
Photorealistic text-to-image diffusion models with deep language understanding. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2205.11487, 2022. 14
13

A
Architecture, Training, and Evaluation Details
A.1
Video Diffusion Training Details
We use the same base architecture and training setup as [45] which utilizes Video U-Net architecture
with 3 residual blocks of 512 base channels and channel multiplier [1, 2, 4], attention resolutions [6,
12, 24], attention head dimension 64, and conditioning embedding dimension 1024. We use noise
schedule log SNR with range [-20, 20]. We make modifications Video U-Net to support first-frame
conditioning during training. Specifically, we replicate the first frame to be conditioned on at all
future frame indices, and apply temporal super resolution model condition on the replicated first
frame by concatenating the first frame channel-wise to the noisy data similar to [46]. We use temporal
convolutions as opposed to temporal attention to mix frames across time, to maintain local temporal
consistency across time, which has also been previously noted in [19]. We train each of our video
diffusion models for 2M steps using batch size 2048 with learning rate 1e-4 and 10k linear warmup
steps. We use 256 TPU-v4 chips for our first-frame conditioned generation model and temporal super
resolution model.
We use T5-XXL [22] to process input prompts which consists of 4.6 billion parameters. For
combinatorial and multi-task generalization experiments on simulated robotic manipulation, we train
a first-frame conditioned video diffusion models on 10x48x64 videos (skipping every 8 frames) with
1.7B parameters and a temporal super resolution of 20x48x64 (skipping every 4 frames) with 1.7B
parameters. The resolution of the videos are chosen so that the objects being manipulated (e.g.,
blocks being moved around) are clearly visible in the video. For the real world video results, we
finetune the 16x40x24 (1.7B), 32x40x24 (1.7B), 32x80x48 (1.4B), and 32x320x192 (1.2B) temporal
super resolution models pretrained on the data used by [19].
A.2
Inverse Dynamics Training Details
UniPi’s inverse dynamics model is trained to directly predict the 7-dimensional controls of the
simulated robot arm from an image observation mean squared error. The inverse dynamics model
consists of a 3x3 convolutional layer, 3 layers of 3x3 convolutions with residual connection, a
mean-pooling layer across all pixel locations, and an MLP layer of (128, 7) channels to predict the
final controls. The inverse dynamics model is trained using the Adam optimizer with gradient norm
clipped at 1 and learning rate 1e-4 for a total of 2M steps where linear warmup is applied to the first
10k steps.
A.3
Baselines Training Details
We describe the architecture details of various baselines below. The training details (e.g., learning
rate, warm up, gradient clip) of each baseline follow those of the inverse dynamics model detailed
above.
Transformer BC [6, 26].
We employ the same transformer architecture as the 10M model of [26]
with 4 attention layers of 8 heads each and hidden size 512. We apply 4 layers of 3x3 convolution
with residual connection to extract image features, which, together with T5 text embeddings, are used
as inputs to the transformer. We additionally experimented with vision transformer style linearization
of the image patches similar to [26], but found the performance to be similar. We use a context length
of 4 and skip every 4 frames similar to UniPi’s inverse dynamics. We tried increasing the context
length of the transformer to 8 but it did not help improve performance.
Transformer TT [25].
We use a similar transformer architecture as the Transformer BC baseline
detailed above. Instead of predicting the immediate next control in the sequence as in Transformer
BC, we predict the next 8 controls (skipping every 4 controls similar to other baselines) at the output
layer. We have also tried autoregressively predicting the next 8 controls, but found the errors to
accumulate quickly without additional discretization.
State-Based Diffusion [21].
For the state-based diffusion baseline, we use a similar architecture
as UniPi’s first-frame conditioned video diffusion, where instead of diffusing and generating future
14

image frames, we replicate future controls across different pixel locations and apply the same U-Net
structure as UniPi to learn state-based diffusion models.
A.4
Details of the Combinatorial Planning Task
In the combinatorial planning tasks, we sample random 6 DOF poses for blocks, colored bowls, the
final placement box. Blocks start off uncolored (white) and must be placed in a bowl to obtain a
color. The robot then must manipulate and move the colored block to have the desired geometric
relation in the placement box. The underlying action space of the agent corresponds to 6 joint
values of robot plus a discrete contact action. When the contact action is active, the nearest block
on the table is attached to the robot gripper (where for methods that predict continuous actions, we
thresholded action prediction > 0.5 to correspond to contact). Given individual action predictions
for different models, we simulate the next state of the environment by running the joint controller in
Pybullet to try reach the predicted joint state (with a timeout of 2 seconds due to certain actions being
physically infeasible). As only a subset of the video dataset contained action annotations, we trained
the inverse-dynamics model on action annotations from 20k generated videos.
A.5
Details of the CLIPort Multi-Environment Task
In the CLIPort environment, we use the same action space as the combinatorial planning tasks and
execute actions similarly using the built in joint controller in Pybullet. As our training data, we use a
scripted agent on put-block-in-bowl-unseen-colors, packing-unseen-google-objects-
seq,
assembling-kits-seq-unseen-colors,
stack-block-pyramid-seq-seen-colors,
tower-of-hanoi-seq-seen-colors,
assembling-kits-seq-seen-colors,
tower-of-
hanoi-seq-unseen-colors, stack-block-pyramid-seq-unseen-colors, packing-seen-
google-objects-seq,
packing-boxes-pairs-seen-colors,
packing-seen-google-
objects-group. As our test data, we used the environments put-block-in-bowl-seen-colors,
packing-unseen-google-objects-group, packing-boxes-pairs-unseen-colors.
We
trained the inverse dynamics on action annotation across the 200k generated videos.
15

B
Additional Results
B.1
Additional Results on Combinatorial Generalization
Put A Brown Block 
on An Orange Block
Put A Red Block Right 
of An Orange Block
Put a Yellow block in 
the Brown box
Input Frame
Synthesized Frames
Figure 10: Combinatorial Video Generation. Additional results on UniPi’s generated videos for unseen
language goals at test time.
B.2
Additional Results on Multi-Environment Transfer
Put the Gray Blocks 
in A Brown Bowl
Pack All the Purple And 
Red Blocks into the 
Brown Box
Pack All the Pepsi 
Max Box Objects in 
the Brown Box
Input Frame
Synthesized Frames
Figure 11: Multitask Video Generation. Additional results on UniPi’s generated video plans on different new
tasks in the multitask setting.
16

B.3
Additional Results on Real-World Transfer
Close small box flaps
Lift bowl
Put potato on plate
Input Frame
Synthesized Frames
Put sweet potato in 
pot which is in sink 
distractors
Turn lever vertical to 
front distractors
Figure 12: High Fidelity Plan Generation. Additional results on UniPi’s high resolution video plans across
different language prompts.
17
