Do You Know Where Your Camera Is?
View-Invariant Policy Learning with Camera Conditioning
Tianchong Jiang1, Jingtian Ji1, Xiangshan Tan1, Jiading Fang2,∗,
Anand Bhattad3, Vitor Guizilini4,†, Matthew R. Walter1,†
Abstract— We study view-invariant imitation learning by
explicitly conditioning policies on camera extrinsics. Using
Pl¨ucker embeddings of per-pixel rays, we show that condition-
ing on extrinsics significantly improves generalization across
viewpoints for standard behavior cloning policies, including
ACT, Diffusion Policy, and SmolVLA. To evaluate policy
robustness under realistic viewpoint shifts, we introduce six
manipulation tasks in RoboSuite and ManiSkill that pair
“fixed” and “randomized” scene variants, decoupling back-
ground cues from camera pose. Our analysis reveals that
policies without extrinsics often infer camera pose using visual
cues from static backgrounds in fixed scenes. This shortcut
collapses when workspace geometry or camera placement
shifts. Conditioning on extrinsics restores performance and
yields robust RGB-only control without depth. We release the
tasks, demonstrations, and code to facilitate reproducibility and
future research. Code and project materials are available at
ripl.github.io/know your camera.
I. INTRODUCTION
Significant recent attention has been devoted to imita-
tion learning as a means of enabling robots to perform
diverse and complex manipulation tasks [1, 2, 3, 4]. These
policies usually directly operate on RGB images and are
trained with fixed third-person viewpoints. However, when
deployed in the real world, it is often not possible to
position the cameras to exactly match their training pose
due to environmental constraints. Consequently, many such
models fail when testing on different viewpoints. The prob-
lem is exacerbated when the robot’s embodiment changes,
which inherently involves diverse camera configurations and
viewpoints, making viewpoint invariance essential for cross-
embodiment transfer [5].
Concurrently, accurate camera geometry is increasingly
accessible. Such information can be obtained directly from
the datasets [6] used for training, or estimated through
classic methods such as hand-eye calibration [7], visual-
SLAM and structure-from-motion methods [8, 9, 10, 11, 12],
or modern learning-based methods that handle sparse or
dynamic views [13, 14]. Neglecting this readily available
geometric information is a significant missed opportunity for
improving robot learning.
To achieve viewpoint invariance, a policy must be aware
of the camera’s geometry relative to the robot. This raises a
1Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago (TTIC), Chicago, IL, USA.
tianchongj@ttic.edu
2Waymo, USA. ∗Work completed while at TTIC.
3Johns Hopkins University.
4Toyota Research Institute (TRI), USA.
† Equal advising
Fig. 1: Visualization of camera poses in the real-robot
experiment. Training cameras are visualized in green, and
test cameras are visualized in red.
fundamental question: should the end-to-end policy implicitly
infer camera geometries during training, or should the robot
policy model explicitly condition on camera geometries when
they are readily available?
While the architectural simplicity of end-to-end learning
is appealing, especially in data-rich domains like language
modeling, robotics is notoriously data-scarce. Expecting a
single model to simultaneously estimate camera pose while
also learning complex manipulation policies poses a serious
trade-off between learnability and data efficiency. Therefore,
we investigate the benefits of explicit camera conditioning.
Assuming access to camera geometry, we study its effect on
the robustness of robot policies under viewpoint variations.
More specifically, our contributions are the following:
• A Novel Camera Conditioning Method. We propose
an approach to effectively condition common imitation
learning policies on explicit camera geometries with
per-pixel Pl¨ucker embeddings.
• Comprehensive Empirical Analysis. We show the
benefits of explicit camera conditioning for policy gen-
arXiv:2510.02268v1  [cs.RO]  2 Oct 2025

eralization to view variations, and identify key factors
affecting performance, including action space, random
cropping, early vs. late conditioning, the effect of the
pretrained visual encoder, and the scaling law with
respect to the number of camera views.
• New Benchmarks for Viewpoint Generalization. We
introduce benchmark tasks—three in RoboSuite and
three in ManiSkill—targeting challenging viewpoint
generalization, and the corresponding demonstrations.
II. RELATED WORK
We review imitation learning, methods for view-invariant
policies, and approaches to encoding camera geometry.
A. Imitation Learning
Imitation learning offers a direct and sample-efficient
approach to teaching robots complex manipulation skills by
learning from expert demonstrations. To mitigate compound-
ing errors from single-step policies, Zhao et al. [15] intro-
duced Action Chunking with Transformers (ACT), where
policies predict entire action sequences rather than single
actions, effectively reducing the task horizon. A key chal-
lenge is modeling the multi-modal nature of human demon-
strations, as a task can often be solved in multiple valid
ways. To address this multi-modality, methods like ACT,
Diffusion Policy (DP) [16], and Behavioral Transformers
(BeT) [17] learn distributions over actions rather than regress
to the mean. A recent trend is to scale policies using large,
diverse datasets. Models like RT-1 [18], RT-2 [19], Octo [1],
OpenVLA [3], Pi-0 [4], LBM [20], and SmolVLA [21]
demonstrate that training a single, high-capacity model on
large, heterogeneous datasets results in improved generaliza-
tion to novel variations of seen tasks and policies that can
be efficiently fine-tuned for new settings.
B. Learning View-Invariant Robot Policies
Achieving policy invariance to camera viewpoint is a long-
standing goal in robot learning. Existing methods can be
broadly categorized by their input modality and whether they
learn invariance implicitly or explicitly.
a) 3D and Depth-Based Methods: When depth is avail-
able, RGB-D camera feeds can be lifted into explicit 3D
representations that are naturally robust to camera pose [22].
One line of work transforms sensor data into voxel grids or
learned feature fields [23, 24, 25, 26, 27]. Another approach
synthesizes canonical views for the policy, decoupling per-
ception from the physical camera placement [28, 29]. Others
explore inherently view-invariant SE(3)-equivariant architec-
tures [30, 31] or operate directly on point clouds [32, 33].
b) RGB-Only Methods: While effective, the 3D meth-
ods above rely on high-quality depth sensors, which remain
expensive and less ubiquitous than standard cameras. We
specifically focus on RGB-based policies because RGB-
only input arguably represents the minimal sensing modality
for general-purpose robots. Furthermore, vast quantities of
internet data and most large-scale behavior cloning datasets
(a) Policy with a pretrained encoder
(b) Policy without a pretrained encoder
Fig. 2: We propose two ways by which to encode Pl¨ucker
ray-maps for policies (a) with and (b) without a pretrained
encoder. The L
sign indicates channel-wise concatenation.
are predominantly RGB-based [18, 34]. Within RGB-only
methods, a popular strategy for improving robustness is to
implicitly learn invariance by randomizing camera view-
points during data collection or training. This approach has
been adopted for several real-world robotics datasets [6, 35,
36, 37, 38]. Similarly, synthetic data augmentation tech-
niques re-render scenes from novel camera extrinsics using
techniques like novel view synthesis [39, 40] or 3D Gaussian
Splatting [41]. However, this strategy raises a fundamental
question: if the robot is barely visible under heavy viewpoint
randomization, how can a policy implicitly determine the
camera’s pose relative to its own action frame?
Another line of implicit methods focuses on learning
view-robust representations through self-supervision. These
approaches use cross-view correspondence [34, 42], con-
trastive learning [43], or test-time adaptation [44] to produce
features that are invariant to viewpoint shifts without explicit
geometric information.
In contrast to these implicit approaches, our work in-
vestigates the benefits of explicitly conditioning policies
on camera geometry. By providing camera intrinsics and
extrinsics directly to the model, we decouple the difficult
task of pose inference from the primary goal of learning
a manipulation policy, aiming for a more direct and data-
efficient path to view invariance.

Fixed
Lift
Pick Place Can
Assembly Square
Push
Lift Upright
Roll Ball
Randomized
Lift
Pick Place Can
Assembly Square
Push
Lift Upright
Roll Ball
Fig. 3: Six custom tasks. The top row is the fixed setups and the bottom row is the randomized setups. The left three are
in RoboSuite, and the right three are in ManiSkill. Each sub-figure overlays three images with different initialization seeds
to illustrate variations in the environments.
C. Encoding Camera Geometries
When camera geometry is known, various methods exist
to encode it as an explicit input to a model. The dominant
approach in multi-view transformers is to use ray-maps,
which are pixel-aligned embeddings that provide geometric
information at the token level. These ray-maps typically
concatenate the 6D ray origin and direction for each pixel,
derived from camera intrinsics and extrinsics [45, 46]. A
common variant uses 6D Pl¨ucker coordinates, which repre-
sent directed lines in space and offer the advantage of being
invariant to the choice of origin along the ray [47].
To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first to
introduce such camera embedding directly into RGB-based
policies for robot control.
III. APPROACH
A. Pl¨ucker Embedding as Camera Conditioning
To provide the robot policy model with detailed informa-
tion about camera geometries that is compatible with the
pixel input space, we follow previous works from the 3D-
vision community that condition the model with only input-
level inductive biases for 3D reconstruction [13, 48, 49].
We use a per-pixel ray-map , where each entry is a six-
dimensional Pl¨ucker coordinate r = (d; m) 2 R
6
represent-
ing the ray that projects to that pixel [13, 50, 51]. A Pl¨ucker
ray consists of a unit direction vector d 2 R
3 and a moment
vector m = p  d, where p is any point on the ray (e.g.,
the camera center). This representation is homogeneous and
satisfies the bilinear constraint d ⊤m = 0, capturing oriented
3D lines in a uniform, continuous form. Given a camera
with intrinsic matrix K and extrinsics (i.e., pose) (R; t), we
compute the world-frame ray direction associated with pixel
(u; v) as
d w
=
R
⊤K
−1 ~u
kR
⊤K
−1 ~uk
;
where ~u = [u; v; 1]
⊤;
(1)
and obtain the camera center as C =  R
⊤t. The full Pl ¨ucker
ray is then r = (d
w ; C  d
w ). This defines a fixed mapping
from each pixel to a ray in 3D space, independent of the
scene content.
A challenge when integrating geometric conditioning is
compatibility with policies that use pretrained vision en-
coders. We propose two ways to encode the H  W  6
ray-map (Fig. 2), depending on whether the policy includes
a pretrained visual encoder. For policies that do not in-
clude a pretrained encoder (e.g., Diffusion Policy [16]), we
concatenate the Pl¨ucker map channel-wise with the image
(Fig. 2(b)). We modify the first layer of the image encoder
such that it takes a 9-channel rather than 3-channel input and
leave the rest of the policy network unchanged. For policies
with pretrained encoders, we employ a small convolutional
network to encode the Pl¨ucker map to the same dimension as
the image latent (Fig. 2(a)). We then concatenate the output
with the image latent channel-wise.
B. Benchmarks and Task Setup
We create three new variants of tasks in RoboSuite—Lift,
Pick Place Can, Assembly Square—and three new variants
of tasks in ManiSkill—Push, Lift Upright, Roll Ball—where
we diversify the camera poses. We introduce two versions
of each task as visualized in Figure 3. In the fixed setting,
the robot is fixed relative to the table and floor. In the
randomized setting, we randomize (i) the robot’s position
and orientation on the table; and (ii) the table position and
orientation relative to the floor. The randomized version
emulates practical settings in which policies cannot exploit
visual cues from the table or floor to (implicitly) estimate
the pose of the camera relative to the robot.
For our experiments, we intentionally exclude the wrist
camera, as manipulation tasks often require information
from third-person views that the wrist camera alone cannot
provide. Doing so allows us to isolate the effects of camera

Initial States
Camera Poses
Initial States
Camera Poses
Fig. 4: Visualization of changes of two factors in data
collection: camera pose and initial state of environment. On
the left, n = 3 and m = 1. On the right, n = 4 and m = 2.
Front View
Top View
Fig. 5: Visualization of camera poses. The training camera
poses are in green and the test camera poses are in red.
conditioning on these third-person views and, in turn, policy
performance.
Notice that when randomizing the camera poses during
data collection, there are two factors being randomized: the
camera pose and the initial state of the environment. For the
model to efficiently generalize compositionally, we follow
Gao et al. [52] and collect our data in a “stair”-shaped
manner (Fig. 4): each demonstration episode is recorded with
n cameras, episodes i and i + 1 share n   m camera poses,
and episode i + 1 involves m new camera poses. For Can
and Square, due to the difficulty of the task, we use n = 4
and m = 2. For the real-robot experiments and the rest of
the simulated experiments, we use n = 3 and m = 1.
The camera poses are visualized in Figure 5. For all
tasks, we randomized the azimuth in a 180 degree range and
elevation from 30 degrees to 60 degrees. We also randomized
the 3D point that the cameras point to in a small 3D box.
C. Evaluation Protocol
We follow the evaluation protocol of Chi et al. [16]: for
each policy we train with three torch random seeds (0; 1; 2),
take the last ten checkpoints from each run, and evaluate
every checkpoint on 50 distinct initial position–camera pose
pairs, yielding 3  10  50 = 150 rollouts per setting. For
SmolVLA, due to compute constraints, we only run seed 0,
which yields 50 rollouts per setting. To ensure fairness,
Fig. 6: Success rates of policies for fixed and randomized
settings, with and without Pl¨ucker conditioning.
we fix the environment random seeds so that the initial
conditions and stochastic environment noise are identical
across checkpoints, torch seeds, and policies within each task
setting. All the simulated experiments, including ablation
studies, follow this evaluation protocol.
IV. RESULTS
We evaluate the robustness of behavior cloning policies
to viewpoint variations and the benefits of pose conditioning
through both simulation and real-world experiments. Simu-
lation results are averaged across 1500 rollouts for ACT and
Diffusion Policy and 500 rollouts for SmolVLA.
A. Simulated Experiments
1) Camera Conditioning Increases Success Rate Across
Models: We train ACT [15], Diffusion Policy [16], and
SmolVLA [21] on the six tasks in simulation with and
without camera conditioning. See Section IV-A.8 for details.
We see in Table I that adding camera pose conditioning
increases success rates for all models in all tasks.
2) Fixed vs. Randomized Background: Figure 6 evaluates
the benefits of conditioning an ACT policy on camera
extrinsics for the fixed and randomized variations of each
task. Across all six tasks, the baseline ACT policy performs
worse in the randomized setting, where it cannot exploit
the environment structure to infer relative camera pose.
It is in this setting that we see the greatest benefit of
conditioning on camera pose; however, the results show that
it is advantageous in the fixed setting as well.
3) Random Cropping: Random cropping is applied to
both the Pl¨ucker maps and the images, ensuring that the one-
to-one correspondence between image pixels and Pl¨ucker
“pixels” is preserved. Figure 8 shows the success rates of
the three RoboSuite tasks with and without random cropping.
Cropping consistently improves performance across all tasks.
One interpretation of the results is that cropping effectively
adds virtual cameras with different parameters.

TABLE I: Success rates (%) on simulated tasks with and without camera pose conditioning.
Method
Lift
Pick Place Can
Assembly Square
Push
Lift Upright
Roll Ball
ACT
33.6
26.7
10.8
29.9
22.9
28.7
ACT w. conditioning
60.6 (+27.0)
30.9 (+4.2)
18.7 (+7.9)
37.5 (+7.6)
34.6 (+11.7)
29.7 (+1.0)
DP
29.1
23.1
2.0
20.0
9.5
19.9
DP w. conditioning
51.1 (+22.0)
39.3 (+16.2)
2.4 (+0.4)
30.3 (+10.3)
20.7 (+11.2)
23.7 (+3.8)
SmolVLA
19.6
56.0
22.0
39.0
23.6
27.6
SmolVLA w. Conditioning
54.4 (+34.8)
70.0 (+14.0)
26.4 (+4.4)
43.8 (+4.8)
33.4 (+9.8)
30.4 (+2.8)
4) Action Space: We ablate across four action spaces:
Absolute End-Effector Pose, Delta End-Effector Pose, Ab-
solute Joint Position, and Delta Joint Position. To ensure
fairness, we use the same set of demonstrations, converting
them into each action space, and verify by replay that all
achieve success rates above 99 percent. Delta actions share
the same underlying absolute controllers: Delta End-Effector
Pose is derived by differencing adjacent absolute poses
and accumulating at test time, while Delta Joint Position
is derived analogously from Absolute Joint Position. Thus,
any differences between delta and absolute variants reflect
the policies’ generalization, not the controllers themselves.
We see in Figure 7 that the policy performs best when
actions take the form of Delta End-Effector Pose and that the
performance is noticeably worse for Absolute Joint Position
and Absolute End-Effector Pose. Nonetheless, the results
reveal that camera conditioning increases performance for
all four action spaces.
Fig. 7: Success rates for different action spaces.
5) Different Ways to Encode Camera Poses: We ablate
different approaches to encoding camera poses, as shown in
Figure 9. In the linear projection method, the extrinsic matrix
is linearly projected to a token. In the early fusion method,
the Pl¨ucker map is concatenated with the image pixel-wise
before the pretrained encoder. In the late fusion method,
the Pl¨ucker and image latents are concatenated channel-wise
after separate encoders, which is the approach we adopt for
ACT and SmolVLA in the main experiments. We find that
the linear projection method provides no observable benefit.
Fig. 8: Ablation of random cropping’s effect on task success.
Fig. 9: Ablation of different camera pose encoding methods.
In most cases, early fusion is less effective than late fusion.
This may be because concatenating the Pl¨ucker map with
the image creates inputs that are out of distribution for the
pretrained ResNet at the start of training, whereas encoders
trained from scratch do not face this issue.
6) The Effect of Pretrained Vision Encoders: We find that
pretraining the image encoder (Fig. 10) has little effect on the
success rate. We trained ACT with ResNet encoders under
three settings: no pretraining, R3M weights, and pretraining
on ImageNet. Based on these results, we follow the original
papers in our experiments: ImageNet-pretrained ResNet for

ACT, randomly initialized ResNet for Diffusion Policy, and
SigLIP [53] for SmolVLA.
Fig. 10: Ablation on pretraining of image encoders.
Fig. 11: Experiment on scaling to more camera poses with
the Pick task in RoboSuite.
7) Scaling: We evaluate the benefits of conditioning on
camera pose when scaling the training data to more views.
For these experiments, all demonstrations share the same set
of n cameras (m = 0). The results are shown in Figure 11.
The x-axis shows the number of cameras on a logarithmic
scale. We observe that, to achieve the same performance,
training without camera pose conditioning requires several
times more cameras compared to training with pose con-
ditioning. Moreover, as the number of cameras increases
further, conditioning on camera pose still provides a small
but consistent improvement.
8) Training Details: ACT and SmolVLA are trained for
30k epochs and evaluated every 1k epochs. Diffusion Policy
is trained for 80k epochs and evaluated every 2k epochs. The
number of epochs is selected so that the last 10 evaluation
starts well after the policies’ success rates have converged.
ACT and Diffusion Policy use a constant learning rate
schedule. SmolVLA starts from the pretrained weights from
Pick Place
Plate Insertion
Hang Mug
Fig. 12: Real-robot tasks. Each sub-figure overlays three
images with different initial states, to illustrate variations in
the tasks.
LeRobot [54] and we train it with a linear warmup and a
cosine decay of learning rate, as we find it is difficult to
optimize with a constant learning rate schedule.
B. Real-World Experiments
Fig. 13: The performance of (top) ACT and (bottom) Diffu-
sion Policy with and without camera pose conditioning for
the three real-world experiments with 21 rollouts per setting.1
We conduct real-robot experiments using a UR5 robot arm
(Fig. 1) equipped with a Robotiq three-finger gripper on three
tasks (Fig. 12): Pick Place, Plate Insertion, and Hang Mug.
For each task, we collect 20 demonstrations using a VR-
based teleoperation interface. Three cameras are mounted on
articulated camera arms, allowing us to vary their poses. We
follow the same randomization strategy as in the simula-
tion experiments: each demonstration is recorded with three
cameras (n = 3), and after each recording, we change the
pose of one camera (m = 1). We estimate the pose of each
camera using AprilTags [55]. We train ACT for 30k epochs
and Diffusion Policy for 60k epochs.
We aim to replicate the randomized setting employed in
the simulation benchmarks, which is consistent with practical

policy deployments. Because the UR5 is heavy and difficult
to reposition, we approximate this setting by covering the
background with green cloth to remove static visual cues.
For evaluation, we test with seven random poses for each
of the three cameras. In each setting, we run one rollout using
two of the three cameras, resulting in 3  7 = 21 rollouts
per setting. To ensure fairness, we mark the initial positions
of objects and reset them consistently across all methods.
Due to the difficulty of the real-robot tasks, we introduce
a criterion called half-success. This allows us to provide
more nuanced information that is not captured by a simple
binary measure of success or failure. We define half-success
separately for each task as follows:
• Pick Place: Half-success means the robot attempts to
lift the cup, but it slips when the grasp is slightly off.
Success means lifting the cup and placing it in the bowl.
• Plate Insertion: Half-success means the robot success-
fully picks up the plate. Success requires inserting the
plate into the slots of the dish rack.
• Hang Mug: Half-success occurs when the mug makes
contact with the hanger. Success requires that the mug
ends up hanging securely on the hanger.
We see from Figure 13 that conditioning on camera poses
improves all policies for all tasks.
V. CONCLUSION
We studied view-invariant imitation learning by condi-
tioning policies on camera extrinsics using Pl¨ucker ray-
maps. Our experiments show consistent improvements in
viewpoint generalization across ACT, Diffusion Policy, and
SmolVLA in both simulation and real robot settings. We also
highlighted how policies without extrinsics can exploit static
background cues and fail when those cues change, while
extrinsics conditioning restores performance.
Despite these encouraging results, our study has its limi-
tations. Current pose estimation methods remain imperfect,
particularly in scenarios with featureless surfaces, limited
view overlap, or highly dynamic scenes. In such cases, pose
estimation errors can compound with downstream control
if no mitigation strategies are applied. Nonetheless, rapid
progress in generalized pose estimation [14] suggests this
sub-problem may be addressed before the broader challenge
of end-to-end robot policy learning is solved. Moreover,
our work mainly focuses on pose conditioning, while many
other directions remain unexplored. For example, just as our
method enables policies to generalize to novel camera poses,
a natural extension would be to support generalization across
cameras with different intrinsics.
Looking forward, we believe these contributions will pro-
vide both methodological insights and practical benchmarks
for advancing viewpoint-robust imitation learning. In partic-
ular, our six new RoboSuite and ManiSkill benchmarks offer
1We observed that the performance of Diffusion Policy is significantly
worse than that of ACT. We believe this is partly due to its stochastic nature
in precision-demanding tasks. In particular, when multiple trajectories can
complete a task, Diffusion Policy often oscillates between them, which can
lead to failure.
a principled way to evaluate robustness, while our findings on
action space design and data augmentation highlight key con-
siderations for policy training. Together, these contributions
lay the foundation for developing policies that generalize
more reliably across the diverse viewpoints encountered in
real-world deployment.
REFERENCES
[1] D. Ghosh, H. Walke, K. Pertsch, K. Black, O. Mees, S. Dasari,
J. Hejna, C. Xu, J. Luo, T. Kreiman, Y. L. Tan, P. R. Sanketi,
Q. Vuong, T. Xiao, D. Sadigh, C. Finn, and S. Levine, “Octo:
An open-source generalist robot policy,” in Proc. Robotics:
Science and Systems (RSS), 2024.
[2] Open X-Embodiment Collaboration, “Open X-Embodiment:
Robotic learning datasets and RT-X models,” in Proceedings
of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Au-
tomation (ICRA), 2024, pp. 6892–6903.
[3] M. J. Kim, K. Pertsch, S. Karamcheti, T. Xiao, A. Balakrishna,
S. Nair, R. Rafailov, E. Foster, G. Lam, P. Sanketi, Q. Vuong,
T. Kollar, B. Burchfiel, R. Tedrake, D. Sadigh, S. Levine,
P. Liang, and C. Finn, “OpenVLA: An open-source vision-
language-action model,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09246,
2024.
[4] K. Black, N. Brown, D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. Equi, C. Finn,
N. Fusai, L. Groom, K. Hausman, B. Ichter, S. Jakubczak,
T. Jones, L. Ke, S. Levine, A. Li-Bell, M. Mothukuri,
S. Nair, K. Pertsch, L. X. Shi, J. Tanner, Q. Vuong,
A. Walling, H. Wang, and U. Zhilinsky, “ 0: A vision-
language-action flow model for general robot control,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.24164, 2024.
[5] K. Zakka, A. Zeng, P. Florence, J. Tompson, J. Bohg, and
D. Dwibedi, “XIRL: Cross-embodiment inverse reinforcement
learning,” in Proc. Conf. on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2022.
[6] A. Khazatsky, K. Pertsch, S. Nair, A. Balakrishna, S. Dasari,
S. Karamcheti, C. Finn, and S. Levine, “DROID: A large-scale
in-the-wild robot manipulation dataset,” in Proc. Robotics:
Science and Systems (RSS), 2024.
[7] R. Y. Tsai and R. K. Lenz, “A new technique for fully
autonomous and efficient three-dimensional robotics hand/eye
calibration,” Transactions on Robotics, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 345–
358, 1989.
[8] J. L. Sch¨onberger and J.-M. Frahm, “Structure-from-motion
revisited,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2016.
[9] R. Mur-Artal and J. D. Tard´os, “ORB-SLAM2: An open-
source SLAM system for monocular, stereo and RGB-D
cameras,” Transactions on Robotics, vol. 33, no. 5, pp. 1255–
1262, 2017.
[10] HTC
Corporation,
“VIVE
tracker
(2018)
developer
guidelines,”
https://developer.vive.com/documents/721/
HTC-Vive-Tracker-2018-Developer-Guidelines v1.5.pdf,
2020, version 1.5. Manufacturer documentation.
[11] T. Qin, P. Li, and S. Shen, “VINS-Mono: A robust and ver-
satile monocular visual-inertial state estimator,” Transactions
on Robotics, vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 1004–1020, 2018.
[12] J. Li, H. Wang, M. Z. Irshad, I. Vasiljevic, M. R. Walter,
V. C. Guizilini, and G. Shakhnarovich, “FastMap: Revisiting
structure from motion through first-order optimization,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.04612, 2025.
[13] J. Wang, M. Chen, N. Karaev, A. Vedaldi, C. Rupprecht, and
D. Novotny, “VGGT: Visual geometry grounded transformer,”
in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), 2025.
[14] J. Huang, Q. Zhou, H. Rabeti, A. Korovko, H. Ling, X. Ren,
T. Shen, J. Gao, D. Slepichev, C.-H. Lin et al., “ViPE: Video
pose engine for 3D geometric perception,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2508.10934, 2025.

[15] T. Zhao, V. Kumar, S. Levine, and C. Finn, “Learning fine-
grained bimanual manipulation with low-cost hardware,” in
Proc. Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS), 2023.
[16] C. Chi, Z. Xu, C. Pan, E. Cousineau, B. Burchfiel, S. Feng,
R. Tedrake, and S. Song, “Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy
learning via action diffusion,” Int’l J. of Robotics Research,
2024.
[17] N. M. M. Shafiullah, Z. J. Cui, A. Altanzaya, and L. Pinto,
“Behavior transformers: Cloning k modes with one stone,”
in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS), 2022.
[18] G. M. Brohan, N. Brown, E. Luo, K. Pertsch, J. E. Suarez,
S. Levine, and K. Hausman, “RT-1: Robotics transformer for
real-world control at scale,” in Proc. Robotics: Science and
Systems (RSS), 2023.
[19] A. Brohan, N. Brown, J. Carbajal, and et al., “RT-2: Vision–
language–action models transfer web knowledge to robotic
control,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15818, 2023.
[20] TRI LBM Team, “A careful examination of large behavior
models for multitask dexterous manipulation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2507.05331, 2025.
[21] M. Shukor, D. Aubakirova, F. Capuano, A. Marafioti, S. Alib-
ert, M. Cord, T. Wolf, and R. Cadene, “SmolVLA: A vision-
language-action model for affordable and efficient robotics,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.01844, 2025.
[22] S. Peri, I. Lee, C. Kim, F. Li, T. Hermans, and S. Lee, “Point
cloud models improve visual robustness in robotic learners,”
in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2024, pp. 17 529–17 536.
[23] M. Shridhar, L. Manuelli, and D. Fox, “Perceiver-Actor: A
multi-task transformer for robotic manipulation,” in Proc.
Conf. on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2023.
[24] M. Grotz, M. Shridhar, T. Asfour, and D. Fox, “PerAct2:
Benchmarking and learning for robotic bimanual manipulation
tasks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.00278, 2024.
[25] Y. Ze, G. Yan, Y. Wu, A. Macaluso, Y. Ge, J. Ye, N. Hansen,
L. E. Li, and X. Wang, “GNFactor: Multi-task real robot
learning with generalizable neural feature fields,” in Proc.
Conf. on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2023.
[26] J. Gervet, D. F. Fouhey, D. Pathak, and D. Ramanan, “Act3D:
3D feature field transformers for multi-task robotic manipula-
tion,” in Proc. Conf. on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2023.
[27] J. Tian, L. Wang, S. Zhou, S. Wang, J. Li, H. Sun, and
W. Tang, “PDFactor: Learning tri-perspective view policy
diffusion field for multi-task robotic manipulation,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 2025.
[28] A. Goyal, J. Xu, Y. Guo, V. Blukis, Y. Chao, and D. Fox,
“RVT: Robotic view transformer for 3D object manipulation,”
in Proc. Conf. on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2023.
[29] A. Goyal, V. Blukis, J. Xu, Y. Guo, Y. Chao, and D. Fox,
“RVT-2: Learning precise manipulation from few demonstra-
tions,” in Proc. Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS), 2024.
[30] J. Yang, Z. Cao, C. Deng, R. Antonova, S. Song, and J. Bohg,
“EquiBot: SIM(3)-equivariant diffusion policy for generaliz-
able and data efficient learning,” in Proc. Conf. on Robot
Learning (CoRL), 2025.
[31] X. Zhu, Y. Qi, Y. Zhu, R. Walters, and R. Platt, “EquAct: An
SE(3)-equivariant multi-task transformer for open-loop robotic
manipulation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.21351, 2025.
[32] Y. Ze, G. Zhang, K. Zhang, C. Hu, M. Wang, and H. Xu, “3D
diffusion policy: Generalizable visuomotor policy learning via
simple 3D representations,” in Proc. Robotics: Science and
Systems (RSS), 2024.
[33] T.-W. Ke, N. Gkanatsios, and K. Fragkiadaki, “3D diffuser
actor: Policy diffusion with 3D scene representations,” in Proc.
Conf. on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2025.
[34] S. Nair, S. Zhu, S. Savarese, C. Finn et al., “R3M: A universal
visual representation for robot manipulation,” in Proc. Conf.
on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2023.
[35] “RoboSet:
A
large-scale
real-world
multi-task
dataset
for robotic manipulation,” https://robopen.github.io/roboset/,
2023, dataset website (see also RoboAgent paper for details).
[36] H.-S. Fang, H. Fang, Z. Tang, J. Liu, C. Wang, J. Wang,
H. Zhu, and C. Lu, “RH20T: A comprehensive robotic dataset
for learning diverse skills in one-shot,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
(ICRA), 2024.
[37] S. Dasari, F. Ebert, S. Tian, S. Nair, B. Bucher, K. Schmeck-
peper, S. Singh, S. Levine, and C. Finn, “RoboNet: Large-
scale multi-robot learning,” in Proc. Conf. on Robot Learning
(CoRL), 2020.
[38] H. R. Walke, K. Black, A. Lee, M. J. Kim, M. Du, C. Zheng,
T. Zhao, P. Hansen-Estruch, Q. Vuong, A. He, V. Myers,
K. Fang, C. Finn, and S. Levine, “BridgeData V2: A dataset
for robot learning at scale,” in Proc. Conf. on Robot Learning
(CoRL), 2023.
[39] S. Tian, B. Wulfe, K. Sargent, K. Liu, S. Zakharov,
V. Guizilini, and J. Wu, “View-invariant policy learn-
ing via zero-shot novel view synthesis,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.03685, 2024.
[40] L. Y. Chen, C. Xu, K. Dharmarajan, R. Cheng, K. Keutzer,
M. Tomizuka, Q. Vuong, and K. Goldberg, “RoVi-Aug:
Robot and viewpoint augmentation for cross-embodiment
robot learning,” in Proc. Conf. on Robot Learning (CoRL),
2025.
[41] S. Yang, W. Yu, J. Zeng, J. Lv, K. Ren, C. Lu, D. Lin, and
J. Pang, “Novel demonstration generation with gaussian splat-
ting enables robust one-shot manipulation,” in Proc. Robotics:
Science and Systems (RSS), 2025.
[42] Y. Seo, J. Kim, S. James, K. Lee, J. Shin, and P. Abbeel,
“Multi-view masked world models for visual robotic manip-
ulation,” in Proceedings of the International Conference on
Machine Learning (ICML), 2023.
[43] S.-W. Lee, X. Kang, B. Yang, and Y.-L. Kuo, “CLASS:
Contrastive Learning via Action Sequence Supervision for
robot manipulation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.01600, 2025.
[44] S. Yang, Y. Ze, and H. Xu, “MoVie: Visual Model-based
Policy Adaptation for View Generalization,” in Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2023.
[45] R. Gao, A. Holynski, P. Henzler, A. Brussee, R. Martin-
Brualla, P. Srinivasan, J. T. Barron, and B. Poole, “CAT3D:
Create anything in 3D with multi-view diffusion models,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.10314, 2024.
[46] B. Mildenhall, P. P. Srinivasan, M. Tancik, J. T. Barron,
R. Ramamoorthi, and R. Ng, “NeRF: Representing scenes as
neural radiance fields for view synthesis,” in Communications
of the ACM, vol. 65, no. 1, 2021.
[47] J. Y. Zhang, A. Lin, M. Kumar, T.-H. Yang, D. Ramanan,
and S. Tulsiani, “Cameras as rays: Pose estimation via ray
diffusion,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.14817, 2024.
[48] W. Yifan, C. Doersch, R. Arandjelovi´c, J. Carreira, and A. Zis-
serman, “Input-level inductive biases for 3D reconstruction,”
in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), 2022.
[49] V.
Guizilini,
I.
Vasiljevic,
J.
Fang,
R.
Ambru,
G. Shakhnarovich, M. R. Walter, and A. Gaidon, “Depth field
networks for generalizable multi-view scene representation,”
in Proc. Int’l. Conf. on Computer Vision (ICCV), 2022.
[50] D. Lanman, M. Wachs, G. Taubin, and F. Cukierman, “Re-
constructing a 3D line from a single catadioptric image,” in
Proc. Int’l Symp. on 3D Data Processing, Visualization and
Transmission (3DPVT), 2006.
[51] V. Sitzmann, S. Rezchikov, W. T. Freeman, J. B. Tenenbaum,
and F. Durand, “Light field networks: Neural scene representa-
tions with single-evaluation rendering,” in Advances in Neural

Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2021.
[52] J. Gao, A. Xie, T. Xiao, C. Finn, and D. Sadigh, “Efficient
data collection for robotic manipulation via compositional
generalization,” in Proc. Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS),
2024.
[53] X. Zhai, B. Mustafa, A. Kolesnikov, and L. Beyer, “Sigmoid
loss for language image pre-training,” in Proc. European.
Conf. on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2023.
[54] “lerobot/smolvla base,”
https://huggingface.co/lerobot/
smolvla base, 2025.
[55] J. Wang and E. Olson, “AprilTag 2: Efficient and robust
fiducial detection,” in Proc. IEEE/RSJ Int’l Conf. on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), 2016.
